Title: Evidence for unconventional superconductivity in twisted bilayer graphene
Authors: Myungchul Oh, Kevin P. Nuckolls, Dillon Wong, Ryan L. Lee, Xiaomeng Liu et al. (and 3 more)
Year: 2021
Paper ID: 62344b3047c1038a9cbc4cd0dff0865db4312923
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/62344b3047c1038a9cbc4cd0dff0865db4312923
Venue: Nature

Abstract:
The emergence of superconductivity and correlated insulators in magic-angle twisted bilayer graphene (MATBG) has raised the intriguing possibility that its pairing mechanism is distinct from that of conventional superconductors1–4, as described by the Bardeen–Cooper–Schrieffer (BCS) theory. However, recent studies have shown that superconductivity persists even when Coulomb interactions are partially screened5,6. This suggests that pairing in MATBG might be conventional in nature and a consequence of the large density of states of its flat bands. Here we combine tunnelling and Andreev reflection spectroscopy with a scanning tunnelling microscope to observe several key experimental signatures of unconventional superconductivity in MATBG. We show that the tunnelling spectra below the transition temperature Tc are inconsistent with those of a conventional s-wave superconductor, but rather resemble those of a nodal superconductor with an anisotropic pairing mechanism. We observe a large discrepancy between the tunnelling gap ΔT, which far exceeds the mean-field BCS ratio (with 2ΔT/kBTc ~ 25), and the gap ΔAR extracted from Andreev reflection spectroscopy (2ΔAR/kBTc ~ 6). The tunnelling gap persists even when superconductivity is suppressed, indicating its emergence from a pseudogap phase. Moreover, the pseudogap and superconductivity are both absent when MATBG is aligned with hexagonal boron nitride. These findings and other observations reported here provide a preponderance of evidence for a non-BCS mechanism for superconductivity in MATBG. A study combining tunnelling and Andreev reflection spectroscopy with a scanning tunnelling microscope provides evidence for unconventional superconductivity in magic-angle twisted bilayer graphene.
