Title: Emerging concepts in cancer therapy: Mechanisms of resistance
Authors: Seema Gupta, Vivek Verma, B. Dwarakanath
Year: 2022
Paper ID: 103a0c52b9d935353a4edff406cb92266c21d498
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/103a0c52b9d935353a4edff406cb92266c21d498
Venue: Cancer Reports

Abstract:
Inherent and induced resistance offered by tumors to various therapeutic modalities is a major impediment in achieving success in anticancer therapies. Targeted therapies such as small molecular inhibitors and their combination with other treatments such as immunotherapies showed promise initially. However, unfortunately, owing to primary and secondary mechanisms, tumors develop resistance against combinational, targeted and immune therapies that remain a formidable challenge to the experimental and clinical oncology community. This issue of Cancer Reports has put together commentaries, reviews, and original contributions covering the current understanding of some of the aspects of therapeutic resistance in contemporary cancer therapy. C. Pathak and colleagues provide a brief review on the interplay between diverse intracellular signaling pathways as well as the interactive processes between various cellular components in the tumor microenvironment that contribute to the multidrug resistance (MDR) against most arms of the cancer therapy. They conclude that obtaining a deeper understanding of the molecular mechanisms that contribute to the MDR and therapy-induced functional reprogramming of tumor cells is a major challenge. Therefore, to improve the efficacy of anticancer therapies, prospective efforts should focus on this important area, which would provide better opportunities to design newer therapies to overcome drug resistance. Establishing a vincristine–cisplatin resistant human carcinoma cells (KB), A. Sridhar and colleagues showed that a cross talk between matrix metalloprotease 7 (MMP 7) and heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) could facilitate tumor progression and metastatic potential besides leading to acquired drug resistance. They also demonstrated that enhanced homing in MMP7 overexpressing tumor cells could be inhibited using the HSP90 inhibitor 17-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG). Since MMP7 inhibitors are already undergoing clinical trials, while HSP90 inhibitors are awaiting approval, their findings provide a novel approach for overcoming drug resistance by targeting simultaneously MMP7 and HSP90. For several decades, induction of angiogenesis in tumors has been considered as one of the hallmarks of cancer. Accordingly, several antiangiogenic drugs, including bevacizumab, have been employed as anticancer agents. However, resistance to these therapies has been observed in both animal tumor models and patients. Notably, discovery of nonangiogenic tumors suggested that mechanisms other than neoangiogenesis exist, leading to development and metastasis of such tumors. Based on preclinical and clinical studies, F. Pezzella and D. Ribatti describe two mechanisms of intrinsic and acquired resistance to antivascular agents: vascular co-option and vasculogenic mimicry. Identification of these mechanisms is promising as it provides novel targets for anticancer therapies, especially vascular co-option being an active process that involves specific pathways such as cell motility and integrin signaling pathways that may potentially be targeted alone or in combination with other therapeutic strategies. Radiation therapy (RT) has remained one of the long-standing treatments for cancer. However, RT can also induce pro-survival factors mediated by multiple signaling pathways, such as AKT, ERK, and ATM/ATR. Induction of pro-survival molecules through these pathways suppress cell death, induce cell cycle arrest, and facilitate DNA repair, leading to radioresistance. Using human glioma cells, B.S. Dwarakanath and coworkers presented evidence suggesting that the radioresistance of cancer cells could be linked to the levels of calreticulin, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) resident protein involved in maintaining calcium homeostasis in ER. Calreticulin is also implicated in the immunogenic cell death. Moreover, they also showed that the calreticulin linked radioresistance can be overcome by administration of polyphenolic acetate 7,8-diacetoxy-4-methylcoumarin, an acetyl group donor to a calreticulin-mediated acetylation, thus altering the damage response pathways induced by radiation. In another study, S. Gupta and M.M. Ahmed showed that ionizing radiation induces binding activity and expression of upstream stimulatory factor-1 (USF-1) in prostate cancer cells. They demonstrate that upregulation of USF-1 serves as a marker of radioresistance since the expression of target genes of USF-1 that are involved in proliferation and survival are increased in cancer cells having overexpressed USF-1 following irradiation. Like most transcription factors, binding of USF-1 to the promoters and its ability to cooperate with other factors involved in establishment of an active transcription complex can be modulated by acetylation/ deacetylation events. Therefore, the authors investigated the effects of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors on functions of USF-1 and found that HDAC inhibitors reduce the expression of radiation-induced USF-1 and its targets. Additionally, HDAC inhibitors reduced the proliferation of USF-1-overexpressing cancer cells compared with radiation, indicating that reversal of radioresistance by HDAC inhibitors may be mediated by inhibition of USF-1. The findings from these two studies will help Accepted: 30 August 2022
