Title: Nuclear Fragility in Radiation-Induced Senescence: Blebs and Tubes Visualized by 3D Electron Microscopy
Authors: Benjamin M Freyter, Mutaz A. Abd Al-razaq, Anna Isermann, Anne Dietz, O. Azimzadeh et al. (and 3 more)
Year: 2022
Paper ID: cd392a926ea46cc0c0392d3c9d3efb4258279de1
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cd392a926ea46cc0c0392d3c9d3efb4258279de1
Venue: Cells

Abstract:
Irreparable DNA damage following ionizing radiation (IR) triggers prolonged DNA damage response and induces premature senescence. Cellular senescence is a permanent state of cell-cycle arrest characterized by chromatin restructuring, altered nuclear morphology and acquisition of secretory phenotype, which contributes to senescence-related inflammation. However, the mechanistic connections for radiation-induced DNA damage that trigger these senescence-associated hallmarks are poorly understood. In our in vitro model of radiation-induced senescence, mass spectrometry-based proteomics was combined with high-resolution imaging techniques to investigate the interrelations between altered chromatin compaction, nuclear envelope destabilization and nucleo-cytoplasmic chromatin blebbing. Our findings confirm the general pathophysiology of the senescence-response, with disruption of nuclear lamin organization leading to extensive chromatin restructuring and destabilization of the nuclear membrane with release of chromatin fragments into the cytosol, thereby activating cGAS-STING-dependent interferon signaling. By serial block-face scanning electron microscopy (SBF-SEM) whole-cell datasets were acquired to investigate the morphological organization of senescent fibroblasts. High-resolution 3-dimensional (3D) reconstruction of the complex nuclear shape allows us to precisely visualize the segregation of nuclear blebs from the main nucleus and their fusion with lysosomes. By multi-view 3D electron microscopy, we identified nanotubular channels formed in lamin-perturbed nuclei of senescent fibroblasts; the potential role of these nucleo-cytoplasmic nanotubes for expulsion of damaged chromatin has to be examined.
