Title: Abstract IA24: Science of surviving cancer: Lessons learned from our cancer survivors
Authors: S. Bhatia
Year: 2016
Paper ID: f362a27692c283f8241caba8dd3a9ae42cf006ef
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f362a27692c283f8241caba8dd3a9ae42cf006ef
Venue: 

Abstract:
The 5-year overall survival rate for childhood cancer now exceeds 80%. As a result of this improvement in survival, the number of childhood cancer survivors now exceeds 375,000. The increasing number of long-term survivors is attended by a growing awareness that many will develop health conditions as a direct or an indirect consequence of their cancer therapy. While some of these conditions occur during therapy and persist well after the therapy has been completed (such as steroid-induced osteonecrosis, or alkylating agent /radiation-induced hypogonadism), many outcomes are not evident until 10-20 years later, such as subsequent malignant neoplasms (SMNs) and anthracycline-related late onset congestive heart failure (CHF). Individuals exposed to radiation and chemotherapy are vulnerable to long-lasting organ toxicity. While clear and unambiguous associations exist between therapeutic exposures and specific complications, considerable inter-individual variability is observed in the risk of developing an outcome for any given exposure. Genetic predisposition and especially its interaction with therapeutic exposures can potentially exacerbate the toxic effect of treatment on normal tissues and organ systems, and can possibly explain the inter-individual variability. Thus, it becomes imperative to understand the individual variability in: i) the internal dose of the therapeutic agent; ii) the biologically effective dose; iii) the alterations in structure or function of the tissue or organ; and iv) the consequent development of preclinical disease, in order to understand the pathogenesis of therapy-related complications, and also develop a better idea of the individual susceptibility. Over the past decade, there have been several reports describing the role of genetic susceptibility in anthracycline-related CHF, in chemotherapy-related leukemia, radiation-related solid SMNs, and corticosteroid-related osteonecrosis. These studies have varied in their investigative approach – from a candidate gene investigation to a genome-wide association study. Understanding the etiology and pathogenetic pathways that lead to the morbidity is critical to developing targeted prevention and intervention strategies, optimizing risk-based health care of cancer survivors, thus minimizing chronic morbidities and improving quality of life. Citation Format: Smita Bhatia. Science of surviving cancer: Lessons learned from our cancer survivors. [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the AACR Special Conference on Advances in Pediatric Cancer Research: From Mechanisms and Models to Treatment and Survivorship; 2015 Nov 9-12; Fort Lauderdale, FL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2016;76(5 Suppl):Abstract nr IA24.
