Title: An IoT-based and cloud-assisted AI-driven monitoring platform for smart manufacturing: design architecture and experimental validation
Authors: A. Petrillo, Bianca Caiazzo, G. Piccirillo, S. Santini, T. Murino
Year: 2022
Paper ID: 0008f70c4123b58042a4a50b89581d7a9c495d3a
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0008f70c4123b58042a4a50b89581d7a9c495d3a
Venue: Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management

Abstract:
PurposeThis work aims at proposing a novel Internet of Things (IoT)-based and cloud-assisted monitoring architecture for smart manufacturing systems able to evaluate their overall status and detect eventual anomalies occurring into the production. A novel artificial intelligence (AI) based technique, able to identify the specific anomalous event and the related risk classification for possible intervention, is hence proposed.Design/methodology/approachThe proposed solution is a five-layer scalable and modular platform in Industry 5.0 perspective, where the crucial layer is the Cloud Cyber one. This embeds a novel anomaly detection solution, designed by leveraging control charts, autoencoders (AE) long short-term memory (LSTM) and Fuzzy Inference System (FIS). The proper combination of these methods allows, not only detecting the products defects, but also recognizing their causalities.FindingsThe proposed architecture, experimentally validated on a manufacturing system involved into the production of a solar thermal high-vacuum flat panel, provides to human operators information about anomalous events, where they occur, and crucial information about their risk levels.Practical implicationsThanks to the abnormal risk panel; human operators and business managers are able, not only of remotely visualizing the real-time status of each production parameter, but also to properly face with the eventual anomalous events, only when necessary. This is especially relevant in an emergency situation, such as the COVID-19 pandemic.Originality/valueThe monitoring platform is one of the first attempts in leading modern manufacturing systems toward the Industry 5.0 concept. Indeed, it combines human strengths, IoT technology on machines, cloud-based solutions with AI and zero detect manufacturing strategies in a unified framework so to detect causalities in complex dynamic systems by enabling the possibility of products’ waste avoidance.
