Title: PyLabRobot: An Open-Source, Hardware Agnostic Interface for Liquid-Handling Robots and Accessories
Authors: Rick P. Wierenga, Stefan Golas, Wilson Ho, Connor W. Coley, K. Esvelt
Year: 2023
Paper ID: 29d108188bc5401ceda2d86183620cf374e058c9
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/29d108188bc5401ceda2d86183620cf374e058c9
Venue: bioRxiv

Abstract:
Liquid handling robots are often limited by proprietary programming interfaces that are only compatible with a single type of robot and operating system, restricting method sharing and slowing development. Here we present PyLabRobot, an open-source, cross-platform Python interface capable of programming diverse liquid-handling robots, including Hamilton STARs, Tecan EVOs, and Opentron OT-2s. PyLabRobot provides a universal set of commands and representations for deck layout and labware, enabling the control of diverse accessory devices. The interface is extensible and can work with any robot that manipulates liquids within a Cartesian coordinate system. We validated the system through unit tests and several application demonstrations, including a browser-based simulator, a position calibration tool, and a path-teaching tool for complex movements. PyLabRobot provides a flexible, open, and collaborative programming environment for laboratory automation. Figure Abstract PyLabRobot overcomes the limitations of proprietary robotic systems. (a) Scientists with access to liquid-handling robots are currently limited by proprietary interfaces that require specialized knowledge, hinder cross-platform operability, and restrict sharing of methods among different robot types. For complex tasks, many researchers need assistance from a specialist familiar with their particular system, most notably when creating or editing protocols. (b) PyLabRobot (https://github.com/PyLabRobot/pylabrobot) offers a single interface that allows any person with basic Python skills to program diverse types of liquid-handling robots and share protocols freely, fostering a more collaborative and efficient research environment. The Python API makes it easy to interact with a large scientific computing ecosystem and allows users to leverage large language models for programming assistance.
