Title: Challenges and Approaches of Culturing the Unculturable Archaea
Authors: Muhammad Rafiq, Noor Hassan, M. Rehman, Muhammad Hayat, Gullasht Nadeem et al. (and 7 more)
Year: 2023
Paper ID: 4c4c6b49968b8ceeb09a376687666c9b97d6cdcc
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4c4c6b49968b8ceeb09a376687666c9b97d6cdcc
Venue: Biology

Abstract:
Simple Summary Living organisms are divided into three main domains: Domain bacteria and domain archaea have prokaryotic unicellular microbes, while domain eukarya have complex eukaryotic organisms. The two domains, eukarya and bacteria, are more extensively studied for the taxonomy, diversity, ecology, physiology, and clinical and biotechnological aspects compared to the archaea. The laboratory cultivation of archaea is more challenging than bacteria and eukaryotic microbes, making archaea less explored than bacteria and eukarya. The obstacles in the isolation of unculturable archaeal species arise from various known and unknown factors, demanding precise physicochemical and environmental conditions for their growth in the laboratory. Contrary to the earlier belief that archaea thrive only in extreme environments, recent reports suggest their ubiquitous presence, similar to bacteria but difficult to isolate. This review demonstrates the importance of archaeal culturing, challenges in cultivation, current approaches, and proposes future recommendations for successful isolation and investigations of the archaea. Abstract Since Carl Woese’s discovery of archaea as a third domain of life, numerous archaeal species have been discovered, yet archaeal diversity is poorly characterized. Culturing archaea is complicated, but several queries about archaeal cell biology, evolution, physiology, and diversity need to be solved by culturing and culture-dependent techniques. Increasing interest in demand for innovative culturing methods has led to various technological and methodological advances. The current review explains frequent hurdles hindering uncultured archaea isolation and discusses features for more archaeal cultivation. This review also discusses successful strategies and available media for archaeal culturing, which might be helpful for future culturing practices.
