Title: Deep learning approach to security enforcement in cloud workflow orchestration
Authors: Hadeel T. El Kassabi, M. Serhani, M. Masud, K. Shuaib, Khaled Khalil
Year: 2023
Paper ID: 4e6fcaa8c46e3be9bb2e0026641d3da819383c11
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4e6fcaa8c46e3be9bb2e0026641d3da819383c11
Venue: Journal of Cloud Computing

Abstract:
Supporting security and data privacy in cloud workflows has attracted significant research attention. For example, private patients’ data managed by a workflow deployed on the cloud need to be protected, and communication of such data across multiple stakeholders should also be secured. In general, security threats in cloud environments have been studied extensively. Such threats include data breaches, data loss, denial of service, service rejection, and malicious insiders generated from issues such as multi-tenancy, loss of control over data and trust. Supporting the security of a cloud workflow deployed and executed over a dynamic environment, across different platforms, involving different stakeholders, and dynamic data is a difficult task and is the sole responsibility of cloud providers. Therefore, in this paper, we propose an architecture and a formal model for security enforcement in cloud workflow orchestration. The proposed architecture emphasizes monitoring cloud resources, workflow tasks, and the data to detect and predict anomalies in cloud workflow orchestration using a multi-modal approach that combines deep learning, one class classification, and clustering. It also features an adaptation scheme to cope with anomalies and mitigate their effect on the workflow cloud performance. Our prediction model captures unsupervised static and dynamic features as well as reduces the data dimensionality, which leads to better characterization of various cloud workflow tasks, and thus provides better prediction of potential attacks. We conduct a set of experiments to evaluate the proposed anomaly detection, prediction, and adaptation schemes using a real COVID-19 dataset of patient health records. The results of the training and prediction experiments show high anomaly prediction accuracy in terms of precision, recall, and F1 scores. Other experimental results maintained a high execution performance of the cloud workflow after applying adaptation strategy to respond to some detected anomalies. The experiments demonstrate how the proposed architecture prevents unnecessary wastage of resources due to anomaly detection and prediction.
