Title: LOFAR data management at petabyte scale
Authors: Aras Bozkurt, Emanuela Orru, Hanno Holties, M. Iacobelli, Natalie Danezi et al. (and 3 more)
Year: 2024
Paper ID: 60de813928549c7dba3aeac45a4416164e986681
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/60de813928549c7dba3aeac45a4416164e986681
Venue: Astronomical Telescopes + Instrumentation

Abstract:
The LOFAR Data Valorization (LDV) project aims to curate and add value to the multi-petabyte distributed data collection of the LOFAR Long Term Archive (LTA) as well as to balance resource usage across data centers by re-distributing archived files. It provides a demonstration of practices to be implemented in production for future LTA management. As part of the LDV project, the following topics are described in this paper: Data curation: An effort to assure metadata completeness of tens of millions of files archived over fifteen years of telescope operations called for thorough screening of the content and consistent annotation of the information throughout the data collection catalog. We will show how this challenge was tackled over the first year of LDV operations. Data editing: The data collection of tens of petabytes consists of a broad spectrum of file sizes and data product types. For editing these collections, a suite of workflows has been developed and operated to reduce required storage resources by many petabytes. The first phase main goals of the LDV project that are presented are aimed at improving sustainability of operations as well as user data access experience. Data placement: Handling petabyte-scale data transfers is both time and effort consuming. To make transfer processes more manageable, we have used two services: the LOFAR Stager service, responsible for staging LOFAR data, and the SURF-operated File Transfer Service (FTS). FTS is responsible for bulk data transfers while allowing users to monitor and debug problems. As part of the LDV project, these systems have been used to transfer over one petabyte of LOFAR data so far and are planned to be used to transfer at least three more petabytes. This paper will present the achieved results and provide the next steps for valorizing the LOFAR archive data collection.
