Title: Advances in the Clinical Application of High-throughput Proteomics
Authors: Miao Cui, Fei Deng, Mary L. Disis, Chao Cheng, Lanjing Zhang
Year: 2024
Paper ID: 7a4691f1e11828c44521b63602f30bf5727c3759
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7a4691f1e11828c44521b63602f30bf5727c3759
Venue: Exploratory Research and Hypothesis in Medicine

Abstract:
High-throughput proteomics has become an exciting field and a potential frontier of modern medicine since the early 2000s. While significant progress has been made in the technical aspects of the field, translating proteomics to clinical applications has been challenging. This review summarizes recent advances in clinical applications of high-throughput proteomics and discusses the associated challenges, advantages, and future directions. We focus on research progress and clinical applications of high-throughput proteomics in breast cancer, bladder cancer, laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma, gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, and coronavirus disease 2019. The future application of high-throughput proteomics will face challenges such as varying protein properties, limitations of statistical modeling, technical and logistical difficulties in data deposition, integration, and harmonization, as well as regulatory requirements for clinical validation and considerations. However, there are several noteworthy advantages of high-throughput proteomics, including the identification of novel global protein networks, the discovery of new proteins, and the synergistic incorporation with other omic data. We look forward to participating in and embracing future advances in high-throughput proteomics, such as proteomics-based single-cell biology and its clinical applications, individualized proteomics, pathology informatics, digital pathology, and deep learning models for high-throughput proteomics. Several new proteomic technologies are noteworthy, including data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry, nanopore-based proteomics, 4-D proteomics, and secondary ion mass spectrometry. In summary, we believe high-throughput proteomics will drastically shift the paradigm of translational research, clinical practice, and public health in the near future.
