Title: The GitHub Development Workflow Automation Ecosystems
Authors: M. Wessel, T. Mens, Alexandre Decan, Pooya Rostami Mazrae
Year: 2023
Paper ID: c55238fd38174efed0f2551168b0700c9385be5a
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c55238fd38174efed0f2551168b0700c9385be5a
Venue: arXiv.org

Abstract:
Large-scale software development has become a highly collaborative and geographically distributed endeavour, especially in open-source software development ecosystems and their associated developer communities. It has given rise to modern development processes (e.g., pull-based development) that involve a wide range of activities such as issue and bug handling, code reviewing, coding, testing, and deployment. These often very effort-intensive activities are supported by a wide variety of tools such as version control systems, bug and issue trackers, code reviewing systems, code quality analysis tools, test automation, dependency management, and vulnerability detection tools. To reduce the complexity of the collaborative development process, many of the repetitive human activities that are part of the development workflow are being automated by CI/CD tools that help to increase the productivity and quality of software projects. Social coding platforms aim to integrate all this tooling and workflow automation in a single encompassing environment. These social coding platforms gave rise to the emergence of development bots, facilitating the integration with external CI/CD tools and enabling the automation of many other development-related tasks. GitHub, the most popular social coding platform, has introduced GitHub Actions to automate workflows in its hosted software development repositories since November 2019. This chapter explores the ecosystems of development bots and GitHub Actions and their interconnection. It provides an extensive survey of the state-of-the-art in this domain, discusses the opportunities and threats that these ecosystems entail, and reports on the challenges and future perspectives for researchers as well as software practitioners.
