Title: Can I benefit from laboratory automation? A decision aid for the successful introduction of laboratory automation
Authors: Nicole Rupp, Robert Ries, Rebecca Wienbruch, Thole Zuchner
Year: 2023
Paper ID: e16122749f3c677edf469b0b1e99d10a3f4c4813
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e16122749f3c677edf469b0b1e99d10a3f4c4813
Venue: Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry

Abstract:
The large volumes of samples to be analysed every day would be impossible to manage without laboratory automation. As laboratory procedures have progressed, so have the tasks of laboratory personnel. With this feature article, we would like to provide (bio)chemical practitioners with little or no knowledge of laboratory automation with a guide to help them decide whether to implement laboratory automation and find a suitable system. Especially in small- and medium-sized laboratories, operating a laboratory system means having bioanalytical knowledge, but also being familiar with the technical aspects. However, time, budget and personnel limitations allow little opportunity for personnel to get into the depths of laboratory automation. This includes not only the operation, but also the decision to purchase an automation system. Hasty investments do not only result in slow or non-existent cost recovery, but also occupy valuable laboratory space. We have structured the article as a decision tree, so readers can selectively read chapters that apply to their individual situation. This flexible approach allows each reader to create a personal reading flow tailored to their specific needs. We tried to address a variety of perspectives on the topic, including people who are either supportive or sceptical of laboratory automation, personnel who want or need to automate specific processes, those who are unsure whether to automate and those who are interested in automation but do not know which areas to prioritize. We also help to make a decision whether to reactivate or discard already existing and unused laboratory equipment.
