Title: 2020 Index IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems Vol. 31
Authors: Saman A Zonouz, Himanshu Khurana, William H Sanders, Timothy M. Yardley
Year: 2021
Paper ID: f1a13b593e0d224219cdd606c8f9e871b35382bd
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f1a13b593e0d224219cdd606c8f9e871b35382bd
Venue: IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems

Abstract:
—Preserving the availability and integrity of networked computing systems in the face of fast-spreading intrusions requires advances not only in detection algorithms, but also in automated response techniques. In this paper, we propose a new approach to automated response called the Response and Recovery Engine (RRE). Our engine employs a game-theoretic response strategy against adversaries modeled as opponents in a two-player Stackelberg stochastic game. RRE applies attack-response trees to analyze undesired system-level security events within host computers and their countermeasures using Boolean logic to combine lower-level attack consequences. In addition, RRE accounts for uncertainties in intrusion detection alert notifications. RRE then chooses optimal response actions by solving a partially observable competitive Markov decision process that is automatically derived from attack-response trees. To support network-level multi-objective response selection and consider possibly conflicting network security properties, we employ fuzzy logic theory to calculate the network-level security metric values, i.e., security levels of the system's current and potentially future states in each stage of the game. In particular, inputs to the network-level game-theoretic response selection engine, are first fed into the fuzzy system that is in charge of a nonlinear inference and quantitative ranking of the possible actions using its previously-defined fuzzy rule set. Consequently, the optimal network-level response actions are chosen through a game-theoretic optimization process. Experimental results show that RRE, using Snort's alerts, can protect large networks for which attack-response trees have more than 500 nodes.
