Title: High-throughput proteomics: a methodological mini-review
Authors: Miao Cui, Chao Cheng, Lanjing Zhang
Year: 2022
Paper ID: f618c4c43352d95cee56bc4d6ec7de02aa1438f5
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f618c4c43352d95cee56bc4d6ec7de02aa1438f5
Venue: Laboratory Investigation

Abstract:
Proteomics plays a vital role in biomedical research in the post-genomic era. With the technological revolution and emerging computational and statistic models, proteomic methodology has evolved rapidly in the past decade and shed light on solving complicated biomedical problems. Here, we summarize scientific research and clinical practice of existing and emerging high-throughput proteomics approaches, including mass spectrometry, protein pathway array, next-generation tissue microarrays, single-cell proteomics, single-molecule proteomics, Luminex, Simoa and Olink Proteomics. We also discuss important computational methods and statistical algorithms that can maximize the mining of proteomic data with clinical and/or other ‘omics data. Various principles and precautions are provided for better utilization of these tools. In summary, the advances in high-throughput proteomics will not only help better understand the molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis, but also to identify the signature signaling networks of specific diseases. Thus, modern proteomics have a range of potential applications in basic research, prognostic oncology, precision medicine, and drug discovery. Proteomics plays a vital role in biomedical research in the post-genomic era. With the technological revolution and emerging computational tools, proteomic methodology has evolved rapidly in the past decade and shed light on solving complicated biomedical problems. Thus, this mini-review summarizes existing and emerging high-throughput proteomics methodologies, including mass spectrometry, protein pathway array, next-generation tissue microarrays, single-cell proteomics, single-molecule proteomics, Luminex, Simoa and OLINK Proteomics.
