Title: Evidence for the utility of quantum computing before fault tolerance
Authors: Youngseok Kim, A. Eddins, Sajant Anand, K. X. Wei, Ewout van den Berg et al. (and 6 more)
Year: 2023
Paper ID: f9253a3e2627f1c2a0a7e2cea320a4ec4e4d2ff9
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f9253a3e2627f1c2a0a7e2cea320a4ec4e4d2ff9
Venue: Nature

Abstract:
Quantum computing promises to offer substantial speed-ups over its classical counterpart for certain problems. However, the greatest impediment to realizing its full potential is noise that is inherent to these systems. The widely accepted solution to this challenge is the implementation of fault-tolerant quantum circuits, which is out of reach for current processors. Here we report experiments on a noisy 127-qubit processor and demonstrate the measurement of accurate expectation values for circuit volumes at a scale beyond brute-force classical computation. We argue that this represents evidence for the utility of quantum computing in a pre-fault-tolerant era. These experimental results are enabled by advances in the coherence and calibration of a superconducting processor at this scale and the ability to characterize^ 1 and controllably manipulate noise across such a large device. We establish the accuracy of the measured expectation values by comparing them with the output of exactly verifiable circuits. In the regime of strong entanglement, the quantum computer provides correct results for which leading classical approximations such as pure-state-based 1D (matrix product states, MPS) and 2D (isometric tensor network states, isoTNS) tensor network methods^ 2 , 3 break down. These experiments demonstrate a foundational tool for the realization of near-term quantum applications^ 4 , 5 . Experiments on a noisy 127-qubit superconducting quantum processor report the accurate measurement of expectation values beyond the reach of current brute-force classical computation, demonstrating evidence for the utility of quantum computing before fault tolerance.
