Title: The beginnings of Yang’s Martial Arts Association Poland. Thirty years of activity
Authors: Stefania Skowron-Markowska
Year: 2017
Paper ID: 09f6829ca38d845bb6681c67e480d9e09f4d5795
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/09f6829ca38d845bb6681c67e480d9e09f4d5795
Venue: 

Abstract:
Background, Aims and Objectives. The purpose of this work was to investigate and describe the circumstances surrounding the founding of YMAA Poland (a subordinate to YMAA International) and its activities between 1986-2016. Yang’s Martial Arts Association (YMAA) was founded by Dr. Yang Jwing-Ming. The author of this paper proposes to reconstruct the events preceding the establishment of YMAA Poland on the basis of available material, and briefly analyze and present its activity with special focus on its early years. For this purpose, the first part of the paper presents a profile of Dr. Yang Jwing Ming. In a separate section, a summary of the position of martial arts in Poland prior to1986 is presented. At that time a successful attempt was made to contact the Chinese Kung Fu/Tai Chi Master, Dr Yang Jwing-Ming, and is described. This contact, thanks to the efforts of the Polish instructor Tadeusz Gacki, this contact, culminated in the founding of YMAA Poland. The early years of the organisation’s activities, and the main directions of its development up to 2016 are described in the last part of the paper. Methods. A qualitative analysis of the sources and the materials collected during the library and archival research was applied. Tadeusz Gacki’s private archive provided the primary sources. The most important material was the correspondence between himself and Master Yang, some YMAA documents (including the founding files), video cassettes and photographs. All this material is of historic value and is published for the first time (with the permission of Tadeusz Gacki). The other main source is Tadeusz Gacki the founder of YMAA Poland himself, whom the author interviewed in 2016 and with whom constant contact was maintained while this article was being written. Another important informant was the current president of YMAA Poland, Robert Was (interviewed in 2015), who provided particular information on the current direction of the organisation’s development. Information collected during participant observation (YMAA member since 2005) has been used as a supplement. Results. A view of the circumstances of the creation of YMAA Poland emerges from the analysed material. The collected material facilitated the recreation of the historical background to the events preceding the founding of the organisation, and highlighted the main problems the Polish instructors had to deal with in organising such an ambitious project. Thanks to the archival material, supported by interviews with Taduesz Gacki and Robert Was, a more complete insight into the process of establishing the first international Chinese martial arts organization in Poland has been achieved. Conclusions. YMAA Poland was established in 1986 after the first visit of Master Yang Jwing-Ming to Tychy, Poland. It was the first YMAA school outside the US. Since that time, Polish martial arts enthusiasts have benefitted from the opportunity to contact and learn from the world’s leading specialists. YMAA Poland has been actively promoting Chinese martial arts in Poland during the 30 years of its activity and has trained many high ranking instructors. It is a dynamic institution, and an important component of the YMAA International community. © Idōkan Poland Association “IDO MOVEMENT FOR CULTURE. Journal of Martial Arts Anthropology”, Vol. 17, no. 3 (2017), pp. 1–10 DOI: 10.14589/ido.17.3.1 2 “IDO MOVEMENT FOR CULTURE. Journal of Martial Arts Anthropology”, Vol. 17, no. 3 (2017) “Poland was the land from where the adventure of YMAA outside the United States, began and expanded”. Robert Was, President of YMAA East European Headquarters Introduction. Dr. Yang, Jwing-Ming and Yang’s Martial Arts Association (YMAA) International Dr. Yang, Jwing-Ming was born on August 11, 1946 in Xinzhu Xian, Taiwan [Yang 1990]. When he was fifteen he started his Kung Fu (Gongfu) training of the Shaolin White Crane (Bai He) with Master Cheng, Gin Gsao. In thirteen years of study (1961-1974) under Master Cheng, Yang Jwing Ming became an expert in the White Crane style of Chinese martial arts. He also mastered various weapons such as saber, staff, spear, trident, two short rods, and many others. With the same master he also studied White Crane Qin Na (or Chin Na), Tui Na and Dian Xue massages, and herbal treatment. When he was sixteen, he began the study of Taijiquan (Yang Style) under Master Kao, Tao (when he left Taiwan, the contact with the master ended. Master Yang found him after years and awarded to the rank of YMAA Grandmaster). Yang Jwing-Ming continued his practice and study of Taijiquan with Master Li, Mao-Ching also with his training partner Mr. Wilson Chen in Taipei. Yang Jwing Ming has mastered the Taiji bare hand sequence, pushing hands, the two-man fighting sequence, Taiji sword, saber, and Qigong [Yang 2016]. Asked about the reason he started practicing Gongfu, Dr. Yang answered: “(...) I became interested in martial arts partly because I grew up in a traditional Chinese society. I was born right after World War II in Yang’s Village, which consisted of more than 600 relatives and family members living together. Back then, it was not uncommon to see many people around you training Kung Fu. Serious martial arts practitioners and highly-skilled masters were much more prevalent than they are today. Training Kung Fu was as common as learning to play an instrument, or playing sports. Martial arts movies and martial arts street performers were also very popular. Whenever I saw martial artists performing in the movies or on the street, it made me very excited and increased my desire to learn it. Because training martial arts was so popular, my parents were not surprised that I wanted to train Kung Fu and did not object to it. Also, because Chiang, Kai-Shek’s party was aggressively preparing for war against the Chinese Communists, there were many people who were searching for ways to condition themselves both physically and psychologically. Training martial arts proved to be one of the best ways of reaching this goal” [Joyce 2012]. At the age of eighteen he entered Tamkang College in Taipei Xian to study physics and also began practice of traditional Shaolin Long Fist (Changquan or Chang Chuan) with Master Li, Mao-Ching at the Tamkang College Guoshu Club (1964-1968). Soon he became an assistant instructor under Master Li. In 1971 he completed his M.S. degree in physics at the National Taiwan University and then served in the Chinese Air Force from 1971 to 1972. In the service, Master Yang taught physics at the Junior Academy of the Chinese Air Force. He also started teaching Wushu, gathering valuable experience as an instructor. After being honorably discharged in 1972, he returned to Tamkang College to teach physics and continued practice under Master Li, Mao-Ching. From Master Li, Master Yang learned Northern style Gongfu, which includes both bare hand techniques, especially kicking, and numerous weapons. This meant that his training as a master of martial arts had become complex [Yang 1990]. In 1974, Yang Jwing Ming decided to study Mechanical Engineering at Purdue University, United States. But it was also a new opportunity for practicing Gongfu. A few students asked him to teach Gongfu and Taijiquan. Master Yang agreed and soon Purdue University Chinese Kung Fu Research Club was founded in the spring of 1975. Because he was a diligent student, in May, 1978 he was awarded a PhD. in Mechanical Engineering by Purdue. In 1980 he had moved to Houston and started working in Texas Instruments. There he founded Yang’s Shaolin Kung Fu Academy. But the most important period began on October 1, 1982, when Yang’s Martial Arts Association was established in Boston, MA. Two years later, in January 1984, Dr Yang quit his job and decided to devote himself to the practice and teaching of Chinese martial arts and traditional methods for maintaining health. In 1986 he purchased property in Jamaica Plain in a suburb of Boston and assigned it to be the headquarters of his new organization, Yang’s Martial Arts Association. The organization grew, and from July 1, 1989 became one of the sections of the parent organization, designed to preserve and promote oriental culture, Yang Oriental Arts Association, Inc. (YOAA, Inc.). The headquarters of YOAA was Roslindale, Massachusetts, USA [Yang 1990]. The main object of YMAA was to preserve traditional Chinese Kung Fu and Qigong. It was also important to present to the Western world the legacy of Eastern medical knowledge that accompanied Chinese martial arts. There was great interest and the project grew. Currently, YMAA is an international organization, including 60 schools in Argentina, Belgium, Canada, Chile, France, Holland, Hungary, Iran, Ireland, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Spain, South Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Founded in 1984, YMAA Publication Center has published many of Dr. Yang’s groundbreaking books and videos, and is a pioneer in the cultural exchange between the East and West. It also supports the teaching and practice of Chinese martial arts and incorporates a scientific perspective, because Dr. 3 Skowron-Markowska S. — The beginnings of Yang’s Martial Arts Association Poland... Yang combines a scientific narrative of the traditional methods of Chinese medicine and philosophy. Since 2004, a new project has been started. Dr. Yang has worked to develop the nonprofit YMAA Retreat Center, a training facility in Humboldt County, CA. Here a selected group of students is trained in a comprehensive 10-year Gongfu/Taiji/Qigong program. At this place Dr. Yang wishes to preserve traditional Chinese martial arts to the standards and quality of ancient times. He still remains the chief supervisor of YMAA International, but after almost three decades of overseeing and directing YMAA International, Dr. Yang officially passed down the YMAA school legacy to his younger son, Nicholas in January 2008 (ymaa-retreatcenter.org/history 2016)
