Title: Structure-based virtual screening, molecular dynamics simulation and MM-PBSA toward identifying the inhibitors for two-component regulatory system protein NarL of Mycobacterium Tuberculosis
Authors: Niranjan Kumar, R. Srivastava, Amresh Prakash, A. Lynn
Year: 2019
Paper ID: a5851e79bad01fa70823bf2395b5f014ff6ede14
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a5851e79bad01fa70823bf2395b5f014ff6ede14
Venue: Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics

Abstract:
Abstract The nitrate/nitrite response regulatory protein NarL belongs to the two-component regulatory system of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), plays a crucial role in anaerobic survival of mycobacteria in host. The absence of this protein in humans, makes it an attractive drug target for MTB treatment. However, the specific drug molecules targeting NarL are yet to be identified. In this study, we identified the promising drug candidates using structure based virtual screening of compounds from chemical libraries (ChEMBL and ZINC), followed by the extensive physicochemical properties analyses and molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. As the initial results, we obtained 4,754 bioactive compounds from ChEMBL having anti-tuberculosis activity which is finally narrowed down to the best 10 hits. A similar approach was applied to search for structurally similar compounds from ZINC data, corresponding to the top hits obtained from ChEMBL. Our collective results show that two compounds, ChEMBL509609 (Gscore – 5.054 kcal/mol, Xscore – 6.47 kcal/mol) and ZINC01843143 (Gscore – 5.114 kcal/mol, Xscore – 6.46 kcal/mol) having the best docking score and ADMET profile. The structural stability and dynamics of lead molecules at active site of NarL were examined using MD simulation and the binding free energies were estimated with MM-PBSA. Essential dynamics and MM-PBSA demonstrated that NarL-ChEMBL509609 complex remains the most stable during simulation of 100 ns with the higher binding free energy which may be a suitable candidate for further experimental analysis. AbbreviationsADME Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, And ExcretionBCG Bacillus Calmette-GuerinCNS Central nervous systemDOTS Directly observed treatment, short courseED Essential dynamicsHIV Human immunodeficiency virusHK Histidine kinaseHOA Human oral absorptionHTVS High throughput virtual screeningIRRI IrritationMD Molecular dynamicsMDR Multidrug resistantMTB Mycobacterium tuberculosisMUT MutagenicityMW Molecular weightPHOA Percentage of human oral absorptionREP Reproductive developmentRg Radius of gyrationRMSD Root mean square deviationRMSF Root mean square fluctuationRO5 Lipinski’s rule of fiveRR Response regulatorSP Standard precisionSPG Standard precision glideTB TuberculosisTCS Two-component regulatory systemTDR Totally drug-resistantTUMO TumorigenicityWHO World health organizationXDR Extensively drug-resistantXP Extra precision Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma
