Title: The CHK1 Inhibitor Prexasertib Exhibits Monotherapy Activity in High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer Models and Sensitizes to PARP Inhibition
Authors: K. Parmar, B. Kochupurakkal, J. Lazaro, Z. Wang, Sangeetha Palakurthi et al. (and 14 more)
Year: 2019
Paper ID: 0f98564bbadecf75ac7a5a91b21186658625280a
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0f98564bbadecf75ac7a5a91b21186658625280a
Venue: Clinical Cancer Research

Abstract:
Purpose: PARP inhibitors are approved for the treatment of high-grade serous ovarian cancers (HGSOC). Therapeutic resistance, resulting from restoration of homologous recombination (HR) repair or replication fork stabilization, is a pressing clinical problem. We assessed the activity of prexasertib, a checkpoint kinase 1 (CHK1) inhibitor known to cause replication catastrophe, as monotherapy and in combination with the PARP inhibitor olaparib in preclinical models of HGSOC, including those with acquired PARP inhibitor resistance. Experimental Design: Prexasertib was tested as a single agent or in combination with olaparib in 14 clinically annotated and molecularly characterized luciferized HGSOC patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models and in a panel of ovarian cancer cell lines. The ability of prexasertib to impair HR repair and replication fork stability was also assessed. Results: Prexasertib monotherapy demonstrated antitumor activity across the 14 PDX models. Thirteen models were resistant to olaparib monotherapy, including 4 carrying BRCA1 mutation. The combination of olaparib with prexasertib was synergistic and produced significant tumor growth inhibition in an olaparib-resistant model and further augmented the degree and durability of response in the olaparib-sensitive model. HGSOC cell lines, including those with acquired PARP inhibitor resistance, were also sensitive to prexasertib, associated with induction of DNA damage and replication stress. Prexasertib also sensitized these cell lines to PARP inhibition and compromised both HR repair and replication fork stability. Conclusions: Prexasertib exhibits monotherapy activity in PARP inhibitor–resistant HGSOC PDX and cell line models, reverses restored HR and replication fork stability, and synergizes with PARP inhibition.
