Title: Small-molecule targeted therapies induce dependence on DNA double-strand break repair in residual tumor cells
Authors: Moiez Ali, Min Lu, H. Ang, R. Soderquist, C. Eyler et al. (and 12 more)
Year: 2022
Paper ID: c16fa4f4eecdee55222bb50c5a70c4fec8acfe5b
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c16fa4f4eecdee55222bb50c5a70c4fec8acfe5b
Venue: Science Translational Medicine

Abstract:
Residual cancer cells that survive drug treatments with targeted therapies act as a reservoir from which eventual resistant disease emerges. Although there is great interest in therapeutically targeting residual cells, efforts are hampered by our limited knowledge of the vulnerabilities existing in this cell state. Here, we report that diverse oncogene-targeted therapies, including inhibitors of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), KRAS, and BRAF, induce DNA double-strand breaks and, consequently, ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM)–dependent DNA repair in oncogene-matched residual tumor cells. This DNA damage response, observed in cell lines, mouse xenograft models, and human patients, is driven by a pathway involving the activation of caspases 3 and 7 and the downstream caspase-activated deoxyribonuclease (CAD). CAD is, in turn, activated through caspase-mediated degradation of its endogenous inhibitor, ICAD. In models of EGFR mutant non–small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), tumor cells that survive treatment with small-molecule EGFR-targeted therapies are thus synthetically dependent on ATM, and combined treatment with an ATM kinase inhibitor eradicates these cells in vivo. This led to more penetrant and durable responses in EGFR mutant NSCLC mouse xenograft models, including those derived from both established cell lines and patient tumors. Last, we found that rare patients with EGFR mutant NSCLC harboring co-occurring, loss-of-function mutations in ATM exhibit extended progression-free survival on first generation EGFR inhibitor therapy relative to patients with EGFR mutant NSCLC lacking deleterious ATM mutations. Together, these findings establish a rationale for the mechanism-based integration of ATM inhibitors alongside existing targeted therapies. Description Combined treatment with targeted therapies plus ATM inhibitors may lead to more penetrant and durable therapeutic responses across cancer types. Ablating residual cells with ATM inhibitors Although oncogene-targeted therapy offers a personalized approach to cancer treatment, most patients with advanced disease quickly develop resistance. Ali et al. show here that these therapies induce DNA double-stranded breaks reliant on repair by ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM), representing a potential mechanism to overcome this resistance. For example, they demonstrated that combined ATM and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors can eradicate non–small cell lung cancer cells in mouse xenografts. Several ATM kinase inhibitors are already in clinical development, which represents an opportunity for combination with oncogene-targeted therapies to overcome resistance in a variety of cancer types.
