Title: Poly(ADP-Ribose) Glycohydrolase (PARG) vs. Poly(ADP-Ribose) Polymerase (PARP) – Function in Genome Maintenance and Relevance of Inhibitors for Anti-cancer Therapy
Authors: Daniel Harrision, P. Gravells, Ruth Thompson, H. Bryant
Year: 2020
Paper ID: d161bc5ee9ede57102b68a1bd35d797889086de5
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d161bc5ee9ede57102b68a1bd35d797889086de5
Venue: Frontiers in Molecular Biosciences

Abstract:
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARPs) are a family of enzymes that catalyze the addition of poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) subunits onto themselves and other acceptor proteins. PARPs are known to function in a large range of cellular processes including DNA repair, DNA replication, transcription and modulation of chromatin structure. Inhibition of PARP holds great potential for therapy, especially in cancer. Several PARP1/2/3 inhibitors (PARPi) have had success in treating ovarian, breast and prostate tumors harboring defects in the homologous recombination (HR) DNA repair pathway, especially BRCA1/2 mutated tumors. However, treatment is limited to specific sub-groups of patients and resistance can occur, limiting the use of PARPi. Poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG) reverses the action of PARP enzymes, hydrolysing the ribose-ribose bonds present in poly(ADP-ribose). Like PARPs, PARG is involved in DNA replication and repair and PARG depleted/inhibited cells show increased sensitivity to DNA damaging agents. They also display an accumulation of perturbed replication intermediates which can lead to synthetic lethality in certain contexts. In addition, PARG is thought to play an important role in preventing the accumulation of cytoplasmic PAR and therefore parthanatos, a caspase-independent PAR-mediated type of cell death. In contrast to PARP, the therapeutic potential of PARG has been largely ignored. However, several recent papers have demonstrated the exciting possibilities that inhibitors of this enzyme may have for cancer treatment, both as single agents and in combination with cytotoxic drugs and radiotherapy. This article discusses what is known about the functions of PARP and PARG and the potential future implications of pharmacological inhibition in anti-cancer therapy.
