Title: Connecting the muon g-2 and proton size anomalies to hadron polarizabilities
Authors: C. Carlson
Year: 2014
Paper ID: 1bd869631363c9da039e32ceb4df222a0774b36c
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1bd869631363c9da039e32ceb4df222a0774b36c
Venue: 

Abstract:
available. 4:42PM E3.00003 QGP or not QGP? , VLADIMIR SKOKOV, Western Michigan University — In this talk I address the flowing questions: What is the role of the initial state effects versus the final state effects in nucleus-nucleus, proton-nucleus and proton-proton collisions? Is thermalization possible in these collisions? Can we use hydrodynamics for description of small systems? Can we observe saturation and low x evolution at the Large Hadron Collider? Is the ridge a saturation phenomenon or a signal of the hydrodynamic evolution? Saturday, April 5, 2014 3:30PM 5:18PM — Session E4 FGSA: Invited Session: Panel Discussion on Career Opportunities for Physicists Chatham Ballroom C Brock Russell, University of Maryland 3:30PM E4.00001 Physics and Hard Disk Drives–A Career in Industry1 , STEVEN LAMBERT, American Physical Society — I will participate in a panel discussion about “Career Opportunities for Physicists.” I enjoyed 27 years doing technology development and product support in the hard disk drive business. My PhD in low temperature physics was excellent training for this career since I learned how to work in a lab, analyze data, write and present technical information, and define experiments that got to the heart of a problem. An academic position did not appeal to me because I had no passion to pursue a particular topic in basic physics. My work in industry provided an unending stream of challenging problems to solve, and it was a rich and rewarding experience. I’m now employed by the APS to focus on our interactions with physicists in industry. I welcome the chance to share my industrial experience with students, post-docs, and others who are making decisions about their career path. 1Industrial Physics Fellow, APS Headquarters 3:45PM E4.00002 Panel Discussion , STEVEN LAMBERT, American Physical Society, MEGHAN ANZELC, CNA Insurance, BRAD CONRAD, Appalachian State University, KATHERINE HARKAY, Argonne National Laboratory, RAFAEL LANG, Purdue University — Please join us for an informative discussion about the many career paths available to those with a physics degree. Our panelists come from a wide variety of backgrounds and represent a diversity of employment sectors; through the discussion, we will explore academic and non-academic career paths, tips on building your network, searching for and applying to jobs, and how to navigate the negotiation process. Panelists will include: Steven Lambert, Industrial Physics Fellow, American Physical Society; Meghan Anzelc, Director of Predictive Modeling at CNA Insurance; Kathy Harkay, Physicist at Argonne National Laboratory; Brad Conrad, Asst. Professor of Physics and Astronomy, Appalachian State University; and Rafael Lang, Purdue University. Saturday, April 5, 2014 3:30PM 5:06PM — Session E6 DNP: Nuclear Astrophysics 200 Andrew Steiner, INT/University of Washington 3:30PM E6.00001 Nuclear Pasta , ANDRE DA SILVA SCHNEIDER, CHARLES HOROWITZ, DON BERRY, CHRISTIAN BRIGGS, Indiana University — For decades it has been theorized that just below nuclear saturation density matter undergoes a series of phase transitions. These phases, which are expected to exist in core-collapse supernovae and neutron stars, involve a range of exotic nuclear shapes collectively known as nuclear pasta. Recently, Jose Pons and collaborators suggested that “the maximum period of isolated X-ray pulsars may be the first observational evidence for an amorphous inner crust, ..., possibly owing to the existence of a nuclear pasta phase.” In this talk we present results of semi-classical molecular dynamics simulations of nuclear pasta and discuss how each phase might contribute to neutron star crust properties. 3:42PM E6.00002 Dissipation in multi-component compact stars , SOPHIA HAN, MARK ALFORD, KAI SCHWENZER, Washington University in St. Louis — We proposed a novel mechanism for the saturation of unstable oscillation modes in multi-component compact stars, which is based on the periodic conversion between different phases, i.e. the movement of their interfaces, induced by pressure oscillation in the star. The case of r-modes in a hybrid star with a sharp interface between a quark matter core and a nuclear matter crust is studied in detail and we find that this mechanism can lead to low saturation amplitudes, and thereby it could present the dominant damping mechanism in hybrid stars. We study the dissipation due to hadron-quark burning in a hybrid star using a steady-state approximation and find that in this case the dissipation entirely vanishes in the subthermal regime, but becomes finite and very strong once the oscillation amplitude reaches a critical value. This strong dissipation saturates unstable r-modes just above the critical value and as a result leads to a simple analytic prediction for the saturation amplitude. We find that the r-mode saturation amplitude can be as low as about 10−4 for conditions present in typical observed pulsars. 3:54PM E6.00003 The Compact Accelerator System for Performing Astrophysical Research Underground CASPAR , DANIEL ROBERTSON, MANOEL COUDER, University of Notre Dame, UWE GREIFE, Colorado School of Mines, DOUG WELLS, South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, MICHAEL WIESCHER, University of Notre Dame, CASPAR COLLABORATION — An accelerator laboratory (CASPAR) to be installed at the Sanford Underground Research Facility (SURF) is being constructed by a collaboration lead by South Dakota School of Mines and Technology. The study of alpha induced reactions of astrophysical interest in a quasi-background free environment is the goal of the laboratory. Specifically, neutron producing reactions for the s-process will be investigated. This process is responsible for the nucleosynthesis of half of the the elements heavier than iron. An outline of CASPAR, its timeline and scientific goals will be presented. 4:06PM E6.00004 Experimental techniques to use the (d,n) reaction for spectroscopy of lowlying proton-resonances , SEAN KUVIN, INGO WIEDENHÖVER, LAGY T. BABY, JESSICA BAKER, DANIEL SANTIAGO, Florida State University, GEORGIOS PERDIKAKIS, National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory, DENNIS GAY, IMEH EBONG, University of North Florida — Studies of rp-process nucleosynthesis in stellar explosions show that establishing the lowest l = 0 and l = 1 resonances is the most important step to determine reaction rates in the astrophysical rp–process path. At the RESOLUT facility, we have used the (d, n) reaction to populate the lowest p– resonances in 26Si, and demonstrated the usefulness of this approach to populate the resonances of astrophysical interest [1]. In order to establish the (d, n) reaction as a standard technique for the spectroscopy of astrophysical resonances, we have developed a compact setup of low-energy Neutron-detectors, ResoNEUT and tested it with the stable beam reaction 12C(d,n)13N in inverse kinematics. Most recently, the detectors were included in a study of the radioactive beam reaction 17F(d, n)18Ne in inverse kinematics. Performance data from these experiments will be presented. [1] P.N. Peplowski et al. Phys.Rev.C 79, 032801 (2009) 4:18PM E6.00005 Measurement of the Al(d,n)Si(p) reaction at RESOLUT: Spectroscopy of l = 0 and l = 1 resonances , JESSICA BAKER, INGO WIEDENHOVER, ALEXANDER ROJAS, LAGY BABY, SEAN KUVIN, PATRICK PEPLOWSKI, DANIEL SANTIAGO-GONZALEZ, Florida State University, GEORGIOS PERDIKAKIS, NSCL, DENNIS GAY, University of North Florida — Studies of rp-process nucleosynthesis in stellar explosions show that establishing the lowest l = 0 and l = 1 resonances is the most important step to determine reaction rates in the astrophysical rp–process path. In an experiment performed at the RESOLUT radioactive beam facility of Florida State University, we have studied the 25Al(d,n)26Si reaction in inverse kinematics to establish the spectrum of the lowest l = 0 and l = 1 resonances. Recent results include neutron coincidences from the newly developed neutron detector array RESONEUT. 4:30PM E6.00006 The thermonuclear reaction rate of O(p,γ)F—a low-energy, high beam current study at LENA1 , MATTHEW BUCKNER, CHRISTIAN ILIADIS, KEEGAN KELLY, LORI DOWNEN, ARTHUR CHAMPAGNE, JOHN CESARATTO, RICHARD LONGLAND, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Triangle Universities Nuclear Laboratory, LENA TEAM — Classical novae are thought to be the dominant source of 17O in our Galaxy. These energetic events produce 18F that, as it decays to 18O, drives the ejection of nuclear “ash” into the interstellar medium. The importance of the non-resonant component of the 17O(p,γ)18F reaction is well established, and numerous studies have been performed to analyze this reaction. However, the temperature regime relevant to explosive hydrogen burning during classical novae corresponds to very low proton bombarding energies. At these low energies, the Coulomb barrier suppresses the reaction yield in the laboratory, and environmental backgrounds dominate the detected signal making it difficult to differentiate the direct capture γ-cascade from background. At the Laboratory for Experimental Nuclear Astrophysics (LENA), our electron cyclotron resonance (ECR) ion source produces intense, low-energy protons (≈ 2.0 mA at the target), and these high currents boost the thermonuclear reaction yield. The LENA facility also has a coincidence detector setup that reduces environmental background contributions. Improved 17O(p,γ)18F direct capture reaction rates are currently being determined, and our progress will be reported. 1The DOE NNSA Stewardship Science Graduate Fellowship under Grant no. DE-FC52-08NA28752. 4:42PM E6.00007 Lifetime Measurement of the 6.79 MeV State in 15O to Help Constrain the 14N(p,gamma)15O Reaction Rate1 , NAOMI GALINSKI, TRIUMF, Simon Fraser University, SKY SJUE, LANL, BARRY DAVIDS, TRIUMF, RITUPARNA KANUNGO, Saint Mary’s University, CHRIS RUIZ, TRIUMF, ULRIKE HAGER, Colorado School of Mines, TIGRESS GROUP TEAM2 — The 14N(p,γ)15O re
