Title: Experimental realization of a reconfigurable electroacoustic topological insulator
Authors: Amir Darabi, M. Collet, M. Leamy
Year: 2019
Paper ID: 28e3916779b69ca4403ff596da74356bae9a3afd
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/28e3916779b69ca4403ff596da74356bae9a3afd
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America

Abstract:
Significance We present a demonstration of topologically protected states using reconfigurable electroacoustic TIs whose design is simple, effective, and straightforward to fabricate. Numerical simulations and experimental measurements illustrate topologically protected wave propagation, free of back-scattering, along edges and interfaces. We anticipate these materials will have broad implications for devices capable of mechanical logic and circuitry, which may have advantages over electronic equivalents in harsh operating conditions, or in replacing wireless systems near propagation dead zones. Due to their dynamic reconfigurability, they may also lead to small-scale multiplexing and demultiplexing devices for use in communication devices, similar to the ubiquitous surface acoustic wave (SAW) devices used to filter electromagnetic energy. A substantial challenge in guiding elastic waves is the presence of reflection and scattering at sharp edges, defects, and disorder. Recently, mechanical topological insulators have sought to overcome this challenge by supporting back-scattering resistant wave transmission. In this paper, we propose and experimentally demonstrate a reconfigurable electroacoustic topological insulator exhibiting an analog to the quantum valley Hall effect (QVHE). Using programmable switches, this phononic structure allows for rapid reconfiguration of domain walls and thus the ability to control back-scattering resistant wave propagation along dynamic interfaces for phonons lying in static and finite-frequency regimes. Accordingly, a graphene-like polyactic acid (PLA) layer serves as the host medium, equipped with periodically arranged and bonded piezoelectric (PZT) patches, resulting in two Dirac cones at the K points. The PZT patches are then connected to negative capacitance external circuits to break inversion symmetry and create nontrivial topologically protected bandgaps. As such, topologically protected interface waves are demonstrated numerically and validated experimentally for different predefined trajectories over a broad frequency range.
