Title: Visualization of an axion insulating state at the transition between 2 chiral quantum anomalous Hall states
Authors: Monica T Allen, Yong-Tao Cui, Eric Yue Ma, M. Mogi, M. Kawamura et al. (and 4 more)
Year: 2019
Paper ID: 3238d116f697acb0b8a286a9c546d5588fbf41c5
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3238d116f697acb0b8a286a9c546d5588fbf41c5
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America

Abstract:
Significance Magnetic topological insulators host chiral dissipationless edge modes, which mimic quantum Hall states but persist in the absence of a magnetic field. We use microwave impedance microscopy, which characterizes the local complex conductivity of a material, to provide direct visualization of these edge states and monitor their evolution across a magnetic-field–induced phase transition. The resulting images reveal an insulating state, which exhibits a distinct geometry of current flow, at the boundary between 2 quantum anomalous Hall (QAH) states with opposite chirality. Due to their immunity to backscattering, the edge currents present in the QAH regime provide a promising platform for future investigations of chiral Majorana modes, key building blocks for a topological quantum computer. Quantum-relativistic materials often host electronic phenomena with exotic spatial distributions. In particular, quantum anomalous Hall (QAH) insulators feature topological boundary currents whose chirality is determined by the magnetization orientation. However, understanding the microscopic nature of edge vs. bulk currents has remained a challenge due to the emergence of multidomain states at the phase transitions. Here we use microwave impedance microscopy (MIM) to directly image chiral edge currents and phase transitions in a magnetic topological insulator. Our images reveal a dramatic change in the edge state structure and an unexpected microwave response at the topological phase transition between the Chern number N=1 and N=−1 states, consistent with the emergence of an insulating N=0 state. The magnetic transition width is independent of film thickness, but the transition pattern is distinct in differently initiated field sweeps. This behavior suggests that the N=0 state has 2 surface states with Hall conductivities of 12e2/h but with opposite signs.
