Title: Vanishing nematic order beyond the pseudogap phase in overdoped cuprate superconductors
Authors: N. K. Gupta, C. McMahon, R. Sutarto, Tianyu Shi, R. Gong et al. (and 7 more)
Year: 2020
Paper ID: 4eab741a0dd5cc825528463329bb943c49990896
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4eab741a0dd5cc825528463329bb943c49990896
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America

Abstract:
Significance Understanding the character of the enigmatic pseudogap phase is a fundamental problem in the physics of the cuprate superconductors. Key to this problem is identifying what types of order, if any, are associated with pseudogap. Here, we establish using resonant X-ray scattering that electronic nematicity—a rotational symmetry breaking of the electronic structure—is linked to the onset of the pseudogap phase in the cuprate La1.6−xNd0.4SrxCuO4 (Nd-LSCO). We report vanishing of electronic nematicity either by raising the temperature through the onset of the pseudogap phase or by increasing hole doping through the pseudogap critical point, indicating that electronic nematic order is intimately tied to the pseudogap. During the last decade, translational and rotational symmetry-breaking phases—density wave order and electronic nematicity—have been established as generic and distinct features of many correlated electron systems, including pnictide and cuprate superconductors. However, in cuprates, the relationship between these electronic symmetry-breaking phases and the enigmatic pseudogap phase remains unclear. Here, we employ resonant X-ray scattering in a cuprate high-temperature superconductor La1.6−xNd0.4SrxCuO4 (Nd-LSCO) to navigate the cuprate phase diagram, probing the relationship between electronic nematicity of the Cu 3d orbitals, charge order, and the pseudogap phase as a function of doping. We find evidence for a considerable decrease in electronic nematicity beyond the pseudogap phase, either by raising the temperature through the pseudogap onset temperature T* or increasing doping through the pseudogap critical point, p*. These results establish a clear link between electronic nematicity, the pseudogap, and its associated quantum criticality in overdoped cuprates. Our findings anticipate that electronic nematicity may play a larger role in understanding the cuprate phase diagram than previously recognized, possibly having a crucial role in the phenomenology of the pseudogap phase.
