Title: Group theory for physicists, 2nd edition
Authors: S. Scali
Year: 2021
Paper ID: 93229b61a34666a2d044190535ffd4d3e4e6b55d
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/93229b61a34666a2d044190535ffd4d3e4e6b55d
Venue: Contemporary physics (Print)

Abstract:
textbook for the subject. While there is a good number of titles treating the introduction to the subject, the same cannot be said about advanced topics. This book enters this domain, covering a vast amount of advanced material. For this reason, this book is intended for graduate students and researchers that prefer a grasp on a plethora of topics rather than a thorough treatment of introductory topics. The book also has a section of very well-structured exercises at the end of every chapter, useful for the reader to practice the tools just learned. It is a book developed, with attention to every detail, over a 25-year period. It focusses on threemajor aspects of condensed matter physics, one-electron theory, topological phases, andmany-body physics. It is a book that, as the author states in the preface, shows a quite advanced presentation in comparison with the well-known “Solid state physics” by N. Ashcroft and N.D. Mermin. The book evolves as follows. “Part one”, dedicated to one-electron theory, starts with the introduction of basic concepts like period lattices, Bloch’s theorem and Born-Oppenheimer approximation, material found in the first courses of solid-state physics. It proceeds with three chapters dedicated to electrons and band theory in which we find, most notably, DFT, tight-bindingmethod, and an entire treatment on the effects of the spin-coupling interaction on electronic band structures. The part ends with chapters on linear response theory, phonons and lattice dynamics, and a focus on susceptibilities to tackle the importance of dimensionality in linear response theory. The second part of the book is about topological phases, as previouslymentioned.Here, we find a little historical introduction to the topic, followed by the introduction of the basic concepts of topology, such asmanifolds, charts, atlases, and metrics. We also find a little section to remind us of the relevance of such mathematical concepts in physics. Following, we find a chapter on Berry’s geometric quantum phase accompanied by two examples that demonstrate to the reader the concepts in a practical setup, a two-level system and the molecular Aharonov-Bohm effect. The part ends with topological aspects of the insulator band structure in which we find the quantum Hall effect and a chapter on Dirac materials and fermions with a focus on graphene and Weyl and Dirac semimetals. The last part of the book treats many-body physics. It starts with the usual introduction of tools such as symmetry considerations and second quantisation. It continues with the interacting electron gas and a large chapter on the use of Green functions and Feynman diagrams. This chapter naturally evolves into a discussion on path integrals. The successive chapters have a more physical footprint with Boson systems like BoseEinstein condensation, superfluidity, Landau-Fermi liquid theory and non-Fermi liquids. Then, we find a discussion on electron-phonon interactions with a section on theMatsubara approach and one on the Kohn effect. The author also introduces the concepts of superconductivity and the BCS Hamiltonian before ending the book with three chapters on the quantum theory of magnetism. Here, we find exchange mechanisms, ferromagnetic and anti-ferromagnetic insulators, Stonermean-field theory and theKondo effect.Overall, the book is very well written and enjoyable to read with a vast collection of topics for different audiences. The book is meant to accommodate an advanced two or three-semester course in advanced condensed matter physics. Given the extensive treatment of different aspects of the subject, it is also a very good reference for researchers on the topic.
