Title: A New Earth Crustal Velocity Field Estimation from ROA cGNSS Station Networks in the South of Spain and North Africa
Authors: David Rodríguez Collantes, Abel Blanco Hernández, María Clara de Lacy Pérez de los Cobos, J. Galindo‐Zaldívar, Antonio J. Gil et al. (and 3 more)
Year: 2025
Paper ID: b7826a43c475e4a95883872a7fe20f6c2acc14c1
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b7826a43c475e4a95883872a7fe20f6c2acc14c1
Venue: Remote Sensing

Abstract:
The convergence zone of the Eurasian (EURA) and North Africa plate (NUBIA) is primarily marked by the activity between the Betics in south of Spain and the Rif and Atlas in Morocco. This area, where the diffuse tectonics between these plates are currently converging in a NW-SE direction, presents several continuous fault zones, such as the Betic–Alboran–Rif shear zone. The Royal Institute and Observatory of the Spanish Navy (ROA) currently operates geodetic stations in various parts of North Africa, some in particularly interesting locations, such as the Alhucemas (ALHU) rock, and also in more stable areas within the Nubian plate, such as Tiouine (TIOU). For the first time, the displacement velocities of the ROA CGNSS stations have been estimated to provide additional geodynamic information in an area with few stations. The obtained velocities have been compared with other recent studies in this field that included data older than 10 years or episodic campaigns without continuous stations. PRIDE (3.1.2) and SARI (February, 2025) software were used for processing, and the velocities were obtained by the ROA for international stations (RABT, SFER, MALA, HUEL, LAGO, TARI, and ALME). These initial results confirm the convergence trend between Eurasia and Nubia of approximately 4 mm/year in the NW-SE direction. It is also evident that there is independent behavior among the Atlas stations and those in the Moroccan Meseta compared to those located in the Rif mountain range, which could indicate the separation of smaller tectonic domains within the continental plate convergence zone. Along the Rif coast in Al Hoceima Bay, the faults are being approached; additionally, there is a slight clockwise displacement towards Melilla, which has also been demonstrated by stations in the Middle Atlas, such as TAZA. As for the stations in the Strait of Gibraltar, they exhibit a similar behavior until reaching the diffuse zone of the Guadalquivir basin where the diffuse convergence zone may exist. This may explain why stations to the north of the basin, such as LIJA or HUEL, change their behavior compared to nearby ones like SFER in the south. Furthermore, Alboran seems to follow the same displacement in direction and velocity as the other stations in North Africa and southern Spain.
