Title: Modified Kuppuswamy socioeconomic scale updated for the year 2021
Authors: S. Saleem, S. Jan
Year: 2021
Paper ID: c90610dcdc166379ddab9859eb0c0dbb56e9394e
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c90610dcdc166379ddab9859eb0c0dbb56e9394e
Venue: Indian Journal of Forensic and Community Medicine

Abstract:
Socioeconomic status (SES) is one among important indicators to evaluate the health status and nutritional status of a family. It is a position attained by any individual within a system of hierarchical social structure. Various attempts have been done in past by eminent scholars and medical scientists to formulate a group of composite indexes to determine SES of an individual or a family living in urban or rural areas. The scales have included various composite indexes to take into account details pertaining to an individual or any family. Among all the available SES, the most widely used and popular scale in our country is “Modified
Kuppuswamy SES” which is mostly used for urban areas. In this paper, we have aimed at revising and providing an “Updated Modified Kuppuswamy SES” for the year 2021. The scale was initially developed by Kuppuswamy in the year 1976 including index parameters like education, occupation, and total income which was further modified in later years to include head of families educational status, occupational status and overall aggregate income of the whole family, pooled from all sources. The Kuppuswamy SES has included 3 parameters and each parameter is further classified into subgroups and scores have been allotted to each subgroup which have been defined later in this paper. The total score of Kuppuswamy SES ranges
from 3-29 and it classifies families into 5 groups, “upper class, upper middle class, lower middle class, upper lower and lower socio-economic class.” Due to limitations, the Kuppuswamy SES needs regular update for income levels which is based on changing CPI values which makes the scale vulnerable to fluctuations over time.
