Title: Van der Waals Epitaxy on Freestanding Monolayer Graphene Membrane by MBE
Authors: J. Lapano, O. Dyck, A. Lupini, Wonhee Ko, Haoxiang Li et al. (and 6 more)
Year: 2021
Paper ID: e17755f1fb41b93a75086dbf47048a6c1ae9c041
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e17755f1fb41b93a75086dbf47048a6c1ae9c041
Venue: 

Abstract:
Research on two-dimensional materials has expanded over the past two decades to become a central theme in condensed matter research today. Significant advances have been made in the synthesis and subsequent reassembly of these materials using mechanical methods into a vast array of hybrid structures with novel properties and ever-increasing potential applications. The key hurdles in realizing this potential are the challenges in controlling the atomic structure of these layered hybrid materials and the difficulties in harnessing their unique functionality with existing semiconductor nanofabrication techniques. Here we report on high-quality van der Waals epitaxial growth and characterization of a layered topological insulator on freestanding monolayer graphene transferred to different mechanical supports. This “templated” synthesis approach enables direct interrogation of interfacial atomic structure of these as-grown hybrid structures and opens a route towards creating device structures with more traditional semiconductor nanofabrication techniques. Notice: This manuscript has been authored by UT-Battelle, LLC, under Contract No. DE-AC0500OR22725 with the U.S. Department of Energy. The United States Government retains and the publisher, by accepting the article for publication, acknowledges that the United States Government retains a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable, world-wide license to publish or reproduce the published form of this manuscript, or allow others to do so, for the United States Government purposes. The Department of Energy will provide public access to these results of federally sponsored research in accordance with the DOE Public Access Plan (http://energy.gov/downloads/doe-public-access-plan). The discovery in 2004 of a reliable and reproducible method to create graphene from mechanical exfoliation created an avalanche of research activity in both academic and industrial arenas.1 The field quickly expanded beyond graphene into a vast array of other two-dimensional materials with potential applications ranging from electronics and optoelectronics to catalysis, sensing, energy generation and storage.2-5 Many of these two-dimensional atomic crystals form layered structures with strong in-plane covalent bonds and neighboring layers held together with relatively weak van der Waals forces creating a dreamscape of atomic building blocks stacked together for novel functionalities.6 Advances in mechanical exfoliation and the use of graphene for remote epitaxy and delamination of material layers has demonstrated application potential but significant challenges still remain.7, 8 The ability to fabricate, characterize and ultimately control material structures and devices that are only a few atoms thick is a primary hurdle between novel properties and scalable applications using existing semiconductor nanofabrication techniques such as lithography and etching. Graphene has also been used as suitable substrate for the van der Waals epitaxial growth of a wide range of quantum materials by Molecular Beam Epitaxy (MBE). New insights into the unconventional superconductivity of FeSe, dimensional effects in charge density waves, the transition from indirect to direct bandgap in transition metal dichalcogenides and the quantum spin Hall state in 1T’-WTe2 are made possible by the underlying support of a graphene substrate.9-13 The unique properties of graphene make it a robust template for the growth of ultra-thin and two-dimensional nanomaterials using MBE but existing graphene substrates are typically formed from repeated high-temperature flashing of SiC.14 Hence, despite the wide use of MBE in industry, similar challenges remain for the MBE grown twodimensional materials in the characterization and device applications using existing technologies. Here we report on the van der Waals epitaxial growth of a layered topological insulating material directly on monolayer graphene transferred to an amorphous support and a freestanding monolayer graphene membrane extended over micrometer scale holes with subsequent characterization of the as-grown material properties. This “templated” synthesis approach can help bridge the gap between van der Waals materials and traditional semiconductor nanofabrication techniques as well as provide a novel way to directly interrogate the atomic and interfacial structure of low-dimensional materials grown by MBE with a Scanning Transmission Electron Microscope (STEM). Graphene is a two-dimensional honeycomb-like arrangement of carbon atoms with a thickness of a single atom.15 The carbon atoms form strong sp2 hybridized bonds with subsequent layers linked by weaker van der Waals forces. The atomic configuration generates an unusual electronic band structure with massless Dirac electrons and ballistic transport making it possible to investigate quantum effects at room temperature.16, 17 Beyond the fundamental interest in its quantum properties, graphene has been shown to be 200 times stronger than steel and can endure elastic deformation on the order of 20% without breaking.18, 19 Its robust structural integrity enables its isolation through destructive methods such as exfoliation, arc discharge and unzipping of carbon nanotubes.1, 20, 21 However, methods for the synthesis of graphene through the assembly of carbon atoms have been developed in the form of epitaxial growth, gas-phase and organic synthesis in addition to Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD).22-25 The CVD synthesis method, combined with its robust strength and flexibility, has enabled the creation of graphene on different mechanical supports with the ability to be transferred to other surfaces.26 The process has become standardized to the point that graphene transferred to thermally grown SiO2 on Si wafers and holey Si3N4 Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM) grids are now commercially available. This raises the question as to whether these transferred graphene composite systems can be used for a “templated growth” approach for the epitaxial synthesis of quantum materials. Towards this goal we demonstrate epitaxial growth of the topological insulator Bi2Se3 by MBE directly onto monolayer graphene transferred to SiO2/Si substrates (Bi2Se3/G/SiO) and holey Si3N4 TEM grids (Bi2Se3/G/hSiN). Thin films of Bi2Se3 were chosen for study as it is a prototypical topological insulator with a bulk bandgap ∆ ~ 300 meV and topologically protected in-gap interfacial electronic states consisting of a Dirac cone appearing at the material-vacuum boundary.27 These surface states have been characterized in detail previously using techniques as angle resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) and scanning tunneling microscopy/spectroscopy (STM/STS).28-35 The two dimensional, spin-momentum locked electronic states with topological protection makes them suitable for spin devices, low power electronics and fault tolerant quantum computing applications.36-38 In addition, more exotic states such as the quantum anomalous hall effect and topological superconductivity demonstrating non-Abelian statistics can be created through proximity induced effects when heterostructures are created with magnetic or superconducting materials.39-41 Finding new pathways to create and interrogate hybrid topological structures is critical towards harnessing exotic quantum states for potential applications. Commercial graphene transferred to different mechanical supports were purchased from different vendors (Ted Pella, ACS Material) and cleaned to remove residual photoresist prior to growth using a multi-step process. The graphene is first annealed in a flow of forming gas (5% Hydrogen, 95% Nitrogen) at 350 °C for approximately 12 hours.42 The graphene plus amorphous mechanical support are then glued to sample plates using silver epoxy and annealed in vacuum at 400-450 °C for 48 hours prior to growth. After cleaning, samples were transferred to a home-built molecular beam epitaxy system operating at a base pressure of <5×10-10 Torr for Bi2Se3 deposition. The samples were annealed to 600 °C before growth for a final surface cleaning and to ensure uniformity in growth conditions. Elemental Bi and Se was supplied via thermal effusion cells and fluxes were calibrated using a quartz crystal microbalance. Bi was supplied at a flux of 2×1013 cm-2s-1 and to suppress formation of Se defects Se was supplied in excess at a flux of 10-20×1013 cm-2s-1. The samples were cooled to 135 °C where a 3 quintuple layer (QL) buffer layer was deposited to aid in nucleation.43 Samples were then heated to 235 °C where the remaining 17 QLs were deposited for a final film thickness of 20 nm. To interrogate the quality of the Bi2Se3 films grown using this templated approach and to characterize the topological surface states, films were transferred in situ to a separate ARPES chamber for mapping the electronic structure. The ARPES system consists of a Scienta DA30L hemispherical electron analyzer maintained at a base pressure of < 5x10-11 Torr with a base sample temperature T < 10 K and a He lamp (He-Iα = 21.2 eV) light source. Figure 1 summarizes the ARPES results on the Bi2Se3/G/SiO2 and Bi2Se3/G/hSN films compared to the film grown on a more traditional single crystal Al2O3 substrate. The band structure of the film grown on the Al2O3 substrate is shown in Figure 1a and is similar to previous results.28, 29 The linearly dispersing Dirac cone is the signature of the topological insulating state and is thus the focus of our investigation. Figures 1b and 1c show the resulting topological band structure of Bi2Se3/G/SiO and Bi2Se3/G/hSiN, respectively. The topological band structure observed on the Bi2Se3/G/SiO film is nearly identical to that observed on the Al2O3 substrate observed in Figure 1a and to films grown on bi-layer graphene formed on the surface of SiC.35 However, the Dirac cone for the Bi2Se3/G/hSiN shown in Figure 1c is broader than that observed from the other films. As will be discu
