Title: T–A–Φ and J–A–Φ formulations for efficient electromagnetic simulations of high-temperature superconductors in 2D
Authors: G. dos Santos, Bárbara Maria Oliveira Santos, F. Trillaud, Gabriel Hajiri, K. Berger
Year: 2025
Paper ID: ee98584940b9cf83549bd0d36030c4d5cc1bf8a6
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ee98584940b9cf83549bd0d36030c4d5cc1bf8a6
Venue: Superconductors Science and Technology

Abstract:
Superconducting devices are attractive technologies that could improve and increase the electrification of several industries. However, as superconductors have highly non-linear electromagnetic behavior, equipment based on such materials should be thoroughly investigated through experiments and simulations. For the latter, the finite element method is a common tool for simulation. However, this method often demands high computational resources, especially in transients. Moreover, the computation burden naturally increases with the number of degrees of freedom involved in the solution. To alleviate this load, the magnetic vector potential A can be swapped for the magnetic scalar potential Φ in the existing formulations T–A and J–A where there are no electrically conductive or ferromagnetic materials. To show the relevancy of the approach and to quantify the gain in computational resources, two case studies in 2D are considered: a single superconducting tape and a pancake coil; both based on (rare earth barium copper oxide) REBCO. The idea is to show the ease of implementation of the approach in COMSOL Multiphysics®. The coupling between the scalar potential Φ and the vector potential A is detailed. An additional benefit of the proposed approach is the manual creation of a unique straightforward thin cut in the mesh, independently of the characteristics of the geometry. This method simplifies grandly the laborious generation of cuts in multiple connected domains. For both case studies, experimental data on AC losses are used to validate the models. The new formulations are also cross-checked with their respective older forms, showing a reduction of the computational time while keeping a fair accuracy.
