Title: EICS 2025 Foreword
Authors: Judy Bowen, Benjamin Weyers, Anke Dittmar, C. Martinie, Kris Luyten et al. (and 1 more)
Year: 2025
Paper ID: f1edea892b66953c2f7ffde46775fe570edaec54
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f1edea892b66953c2f7ffde46775fe570edaec54
Venue: Engineering Interactive Computing System

Abstract:
The ACM Symposium on Engineering Interactive Computing Systems (EICS) is the primary venue for research contributions at the intersection of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and Software Engineering. EICS 2025 is the seventeenth edition of the EICS conference. Starting as a sponsored ACM SIGCHI conference in 2009, its journey as a scientific venue is one of the longest in the field of Human-Computer Interaction. EICS was created as a continuation and merge of a set of series of conferences, symposiums and workshops, including: CADUI (Computer-Aided Design of User Interfaces), CCL, the IFIP Working Conference on Command Languages, DSV-IS (Design Specification and Verification of Interactive Systems, EHCI, the IFIP International Conference on Engineering for Human-Computer Interaction and TAMODIA (Tasks, Models and Diagrams). EICS has become the primary venue for rigorous contributions, and dissemination of research results, in the intersection of user interface design, software engineering and computational interaction. EICS 2025 welcomed contributions in the form of full papers, technical notes, late-breaking results, demos, posters, workshops, and a doctoral consortium. There were three separate submissions rounds for full papers: the first in July, the second in October, and the third in February. Other contributions had submission dates in March and April. All accepted contributions are invited to present at the conference in June. While full papers are published as journal articles in the Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction (PACM HCI, EICS series), these proceedings include contributions received as late-breaking results and workshops. The EICS 2025 technical program features keynotes by Simone Stumpf (University of Glasgow, UK) on “Engineering responsible AI” and Jürgen Ziegler (University of Duisburg-Essen) on “Engineering Interactive Systems in the Age of Uncertainty”. We would like to express our sincere gratitude to everyone who supported EICS 2025 in a range of ways, starting with the Steering Committee of EICS for accepting our proposal to host EICS in Trier, Germany. Many thanks to the members of the program committee, reviewers and chairs for their work in selecting and organising this year’s contributions. The conference could not have taken place without the hard work and commitment of the organising committee and we express our sincere thanks to them for their work.
