Title: Strong quantum fluctuations in a quantum spin liquid candidate with a Co-based triangular lattice
Authors: R. Zhong, Shu-ping Guo, Guangyong Xu, Zhijun Xu, R. Cava
Year: 2019
Paper ID: 7f44b885122f26fe3e417e8bc748c1220751363f
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7f44b885122f26fe3e417e8bc748c1220751363f
Venue: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America

Abstract:
Significance The experimental search and verification of theoretically predicted quantum spin liquids (QSLs) are challenging, especially because there is no universally accepted evidence to support such exotic quantum states. At present, broad continuous magnetic excitations (i.e., a spinon continuum observed via inelastic neutron scattering) is considered as the most crucial evidence for a QSL as described in many studies on the existing QSL candidates. However, as another potential origin of such broad spin excitations, disorder effects in those candidates cannot be neglected. Here, we present a previously unreported compound with a Co-based triangular lattice that is structurally perfect and without intrinsic disorder. We present experimental results that suggest that this compound is an ideal QSL candidate for future studies. Currently under active study in condensed matter physics, both theoretically and experimentally, are quantum spin liquid (QSL) states, in which no long-range magnetic ordering appears at low temperatures due to strong quantum fluctuations of the magnetic moments. The existing QSL candidates all have their intrinsic disadvantages, however, and solid evidence for quantum fluctuations is scarce. Here, we report a previously unreported compound, Na2BaCo(PO4)2, a geometrically frustrated system with effective spin-1/2 local moments for Co2+ ions on an isotropic 2-dimensional (2D) triangular lattice. Magnetic susceptibility and neutron scattering experiments show no magnetic ordering down to 0.05 K. Thermodynamic measurements show that there is a tremendous amount of magnetic entropy present below 1 K in 0-applied magnetic field. The presence of localized low-energy spin fluctuations is revealed by inelastic neutron measurements. At low applied fields, these spin excitations are confined to low energy and contribute to the anomalously large specific heat. In larger applied fields, the system reverts to normal behavior as evident by both neutron and thermodynamic results. Our experimental characterization thus reveals that this material is an excellent candidate for the experimental realization of a QSL state.
