Title: Disordered Majorana nanowires: Studying disorder without any disorder
Authors: Haining Pan, S. Das Sarma
Year: 2024
Paper ID: 85ae1c76df227d103c6c9cc6503c0464e740eb66
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/85ae1c76df227d103c6c9cc6503c0464e740eb66
Venue: Physical review B

Abstract:
The interplay of disorder and short finite wire length is the crucial physics hindering progress in the semiconductor-superconductor nanowire platform for realizing non-Abelian Majorana zero modes (MZM). Disorder effectively segments the nanowire into isolated patches of quantum dots (QD) which act as subgap Andreev bound states often mimicking MZMs. In this work, we propose and develop a new theoretical approach to model disorder, effectively a spatially varying effective mass model, which does not rely on incorporating unknown microscopic details of disorder into the Hamiltonian. This model effectively segments the wire into multiple QDs, characterized by highly enhanced effective mass at impurity sites leading to the segmentation of the wire into effective random QDs. We find that this model can reproduce disorder physics, providing a crystal clear way to understand the effects of disorder by comparing the mean free path to the superconducting coherence length. In addition, this model allows precise control over the disorder regime, enabling us to evaluate the reliability of topological invariants (TI) in predicting MZMs. We find that TIs alone may yield a significant false positive rate as indicators for topology in the actual wire with increasing disorder strength. Therefore, we propose new indicators to characterize the spatial distribution of the zero-energy state, emphasizing the key necessity for isolated MZMs localized at wire ends. Employing this set of new indicators for stringent characterizations, we explore their experimental relevance to the measured differential conductance spectra. Our findings highlight the critical role of isolated localized states, beyond the TI, in identifying topological MZMs. We believe that this approach is a powerful tool for studying realistic Majorana nanowires where disorder and short wire length obfuscate the underlying topological physics.
