Title: Inherited real risk of Alzheimer's disease: bedside diagnosis and primary prevention
Authors: M. Marchionni, S. Caramel, S. Stagnaro
Year: 2013
Paper ID: 02d11be95bb9e70958428e43bab31b81a25c3e17
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/02d11be95bb9e70958428e43bab31b81a25c3e17
Venue: Frontiers in Aging Neuroscience

Abstract:
Mitochondria dysfunction (Leuner et al., 2012) and blood-brain barrier (BBB) impairment (Deane and Zlokovic, 2007) are novel researches and insights into the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD), which could lead to classification of AD as a neurovascular disease. Furthermore, on the basis of AD there could be an impairment of neurons response to insulin, that explain the increasing of cerebral blood glycaemia, due to the lowering of insulin receptors and/or of their response. One of the Authors gathered interesting data, due to the fact that there is notoriously an association between high serum cholesterol, raised blood pressure and, finally, insulin-resistance, according with Quantum Biophysical Semeiotics (QBS) theory (Stagnaro and Stagnaro-Neri, 2004b). 
 
QBS theory offers an approach “as a whole” of the patho-physiology of inherited mitochondrial neurodegenerative diseases, as well as that of AD in its various forms, characterized by an Inherited Real Risk (IRR) of Brain Disorders (Stagnaro and Caramel, 2011). In the frame of QBS theory, the combination of Clinical Microangiology and “Angiobiopathy” theory (Stagnaro, 2009a), allows to merge the hypothesis of AD as neurological microvascular—based disease and the researches focused on mitochondrial dysfunction according to the inherited genetic causes of this neurodegenerative pathology, i.e., the congenital alteration of mit-DNA in related neuronal cells. QBS is a new discipline in medical field and an extension of the classical medical semeiotics with the support of quantum and complexity theories. It is a scientific trans-disciplinary approach that is based on the “Congenital Acidosic Enzyme-Metabolic Histangiopathy” (CAEMH) (Stagnaro and Stagnaro-Neri, 1987), a unique mitochondrial cytopathy that is present at birth and subject to medical therapy. The presence of intense CAEMH in a well-defined area (i.e., myocardium) is due to gene mutations in both n-DNA and mit-DNA. This is the basis for one or more QBS constitutions (Stagnaro and Stagnaro-Neri, 2004a) which could bring about their respective IRR (Stagnaro and Caramel, 2012, 2013a,b). 
 
The QBS method allows the clinical and pre-clinical diagnosis of the most severe diseases such as the IRR of brain disorders (Stagnaro and Stagnaro-Neri, 2004b; Stagnaro, 2009a; Stagnaro and Caramel, 2011); this is achieved in the easier way through the auscultatory percussion of the stomach (Stagnaro, 1985a,b, 1986). Made with the aid of gastric aspecific reflex, this diagnosis is consistent and dually reflects the informative nature and quality of parameters collected by QBS microcirculatory investigations. The patho-physiology of QBS reflexes is based upon local microvascular conditions. In case of genetic alteration of both DNAs, intense CAEMH, and IRR of Brain Disorders there is a microcirculatory remodeling, especially intense under environmental risk factors, due to vasomotility and vasomotion impairment (e.g., functional imperfection) and structural obstructions, i.e., pathological Endoarteriolar Blocking Devices (EBDs) and Arteriovenous Anastomosis (AVA) (Stagnaro, 2009c). According to QBS, most of these inherited impairments are already present, in a similar form, in micro-vascular neurobiological systems and clinically observable since birth, through ureteral reflexes diagnosis. Briefly, in healthy, from the microcirculatory point of view, during stress test both vasomotility (chaotic-deterministic oscillations of arterioles) and vasomotility (chaotic deterministic fluctuations of nutritional capillaries and post-capillary venules) are maximally activated (Stagnaro and Stagnaro-Neri, 2004b; Stagnaro, 2009a; Stagnaro and Caramel, 2011), particularly in hippocampus, pre- frontal and parietal cerebral regions. On the contrary, in individuals with a family history positive for AD and, of course, in patients in the first stages of AD, under identical conditions a dissociated form of microcirculatory activation appears, characterized by increased vasomotility and decreased vasomotion. The flow- and flux-motion in the cerebral microcirculatory bed appears to be clearly decreased, due to the dangerous phenomenon of the so-called “microcirculatory blood-flow centralization.” Unfortunately, it is generally admitted that AD diagnosis, particularly in initial stages, is very difficult. The test of acute pick of insulin secretion (Stagnaro-Neri and Stagnaro, 1997) proves to be reliable in bed-side recognizing this (and other numerous) disorder, even in its first stage. Although insulin is not necessary in the glucose utilizations of cerebral neurons, surely in both cerebral cortex and hippocampus there is a large amount of insulin receptors (Craft, 1996). In initial stages of the disease a scarce glucose metabolism in cerebral tissue appears: venous glucose level seems to be slightly decreased (Stagnaro, 2009b). The authors, in addition, showed that O2 consumption is unchanged, due to the fact that the neurons utilize other “endocellular” substances rather than glucose, probably causing neurons death (Stagnaro and Stagnaro-Neri, 1987, 2004a,b; Stagnaro, 2009a; Stagnaro and Caramel, 2011). 
 
In summary, in the complex difficult understood pathophysiology of AD a fault response of cerebral insulin receptors exists, while the hormone acts likely as a growth factor. From these work hypothesis, in a previous clinical research we observed that, in healthy, the acute pick of insulin secretion (Stagnaro-Neri and Stagnaro, 1997) activates the microcirculation in all biological systems, while in patients at IRR of AD and, naturally, in patients involved by the disease, even in early stage, microcirculatory activation is totally absent. Interestingly, in no other cerebral disorders, including cerebral arteriosclerosis, it has been observed the absence of insulin-receptors response. From the above remarks, our research is consistent with other authors' theory (Koudinov and Koudinov, 2001), according to which cholesterol is implicated in AD, due to the fact that accurate neuronal cholesterol dynamics is critical for the synaptic plasticity and neural degeneration. These data also imply the link between neuronal lipid metabolism and tau and amyloid beta neurochemistry and propose that the classical AD brain lesions are functional consequences of the neuronal cholesterol and possibly phospholipids biological mis-regulation. In addition, insulin-receptors are less responsive to insulin under such circumstances, as shown previous. The central role of QBS Constitutions and of the IRR of brain disorders in aging people disease occurrence is due also especially if Co Q10 deficiency is present. QBS diagnosis of Co Q10 deficiency syndrome, at bed-side, described earlier (Stagnaro-Neri and Stagnaro, 1990), could be very helpful in risk stratification to predict functional decline in older adults. Doctors can clinically recognize, with the aid of a stethoscope, subjects involved by ubidecarenone deficiency, even initial and symptomless, causing damage of tissues due to the increase levels of free radical (Stagnaro-Neri and Stagnaro, 1992). Such a diagnosis, made clinically for the first time, proved to be really efficacious and reliable in avoiding dangerous administration of statins to individuals without clinical symptomatology, even involved by ubidecarenone deficiency, notoriously worsened by anticholesteremic drugs.
