Title: The Ever Changing Landscape of Anatomic Pathology Practice.
Authors: G. Netto
Year: 2020
Paper ID: 67d69b7a38bdf2a7a078543a766a522219c0237a
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/67d69b7a38bdf2a7a078543a766a522219c0237a
Venue: Advances in Anatomic Pathology

Abstract:
L aunched in 2006, The Cancer Genome Atlas project (TCGA) aimed at systematically exploring the spectrum of genomic changes involved in human cancer. The colossal effort culminated this year with the analysis of 11,000 cases across 33 tumor types.1 The comprehensive multiparametric (ie, genomic, transcriptomic, epigenomic, and proteomic) analysis has yielded staggering data sets characterizing the molecular underpinning of malignancies. The impact on our field could not be overestimated. As the list of actionable genetic alterations in solid and hematologic malignancies continues to grow, molecular diagnostic applications have relentlessly penetrated the daily practice of the pathologist in an unparalleled pace. “Precision Pathology” is now an integral part of the practice of “Precision Oncology.” Pathologists are more than ever at the frontline of cancer patient management guiding therapeutic strategies and assuring that the right drug is given to the right patient at the right time. In the current issue of Advances of Anatomic Pathology, we present our readers with a timely state of the art genomic update on 6 of the most common cancer types. The comprehensive reviews are authored by leading anatomic pathologists with notable expertise in genomics. Among solid tumors, non–small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is arguably the paradigm for how precision pathology will impact cancer care across all solid tumor types. Tafe2 details the ever growing list of molecularly defined subsets of NSCLC. Mechanisms of resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) targeting EGFR activation are discussed. Other emerging targetable genetic alterations in RET, ERBB2 (HER2), MET, KRAS, and NTRK are highlighted. The author also weighs in on the current evidence and controversies related to the role of tumor mutational burden (TMB) testing as a predictor of response to immune-checkpoint inhibitors in NSCLC. As the most common type of cancer in American men, prostate cancer continues to exact a heavy toll on patient morbidity and mortality. In their elegant review, Faisal and Lotan3 describe the molecular subtypes of prostate cancer unveiled by the TCGA study. The review brings into focus the clinical implications of incorporating prostate cancer genomic alterations into novel risk stratification models for refined disease management. The emerging role of assessing inherited germline alterations in DNA repair genes (eg, BRCA2, ATM, dMMR) in high-risk and advanced-stage prostate cancer is pointed out. In their review, Harada and Morlote4 describe the main molecular pathways responsible for the development of colorectal carcinoma. These include, in order of frequency, chromosomal instability, microsatellite instability (MSI), and CpG island methylator phenotype pathways. The authors detail the current guidelines for the evaluation of MSI status, and extended RAS and BRAF mutations as predictor and prognostic biomarkers in colorectal carcinoma disease. A discussion of the role of TMB and MSI analyses in predicting response to immunotherapy is forwarded. Tsang and Tse5 contribute to this special issue with an overview of recent genomic advances in breast cancer. A description of the most commonly utilized commercial genetic classifiers (eg, OncotypeDX and Mammoprint) is offered. The authors emphasize the integrative relationship between the novel molecular-based predictive algorithms and traditional breast cancer classifications. The value of surrogate immunohistochemical-based classification in unveiling the intrinsic molecular subtypes of breast cancer is brought to attention. Al Ahmadie and Netto6 provide a comprehensive update on the recent advances in the molecular classification of urothelial carcinoma intrinsic subtypes. The promising prognostic and therapeutic implications of the proposed “Basal-Luminal” molecular taxonomy of bladder cancer are discussed. Emerging data on the molecular underpinnings of histologic variants of urothelial carcinoma are listed.
