Title: L-TH NATIONAL SCIENTIFIC-METHODOLOGICAL SESSION “EDUCATIONAL METHODS AND MEANS FOR CHEMISTRY”, IASI, ROMANIA
Authors: Carmen Mita
Year: 2022
Paper ID: b43253f3f85c905f284650b70883bd3be7c59673
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b43253f3f85c905f284650b70883bd3be7c59673
Venue: Acta Chemica Iasi

Abstract:
The researches in psychology made by F. F. Gayaraki, G. Lariccia, P. Gherardini, L. N. Landa, C. Bastien, etc. noted that there is a spontaneous tendency in both adults and children, to build an algorithmic structure when facing the necessity of solving problems. Investigations related to this method founded the “algorithmic pedagogy”. The authors appealed to experimental teaching methods to determine in what extend the algorithmization is a teaching method that increases accessibility of taught knowledge and if it lead to a more efficient teaching – learning – assessment process. For this purpose, during the 2014-2015 school year, the concepts contained in “Solutions – percentage concentration” and “Chemical formulas” learning units were taught differentiated: in the witness class (VII A) algorithmization was used and in the experimental class (VII B) the algorithmic method had been replaced with the explanation, conversation, exercise and problem solving, worksheets. Assessment of knowledge assimilated of the two classes’ students was performed by applying tests with similar content. The results were compared with the initial premise and average marks obtained in Physics in the previous school year. The paper also includes a study on the influence of external factors on the academic situation of students from VII th and VIII th grades. The results obtained from this study were statistical evaluated using the SPSS data analysis package. The interdisciplinary approach of knowledge in the integrated optional class belonging to the Mathematics and Science Curriculum Area relies on the fact that 8 th grade pupils are at the appropriate age when they are able to notice the multiple relationships existing between Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics and Biology. They can use the knowledge they have learnt in these subjects, as part of the common core curriculum in the optional course put forward by the teacher and chosen by parents and pupils – “The Human Body – A Living Laboratory”. The optional course mentioned above consists of knowledge pupils have already assimilated during courses which belong to Mathematics and Science curriculum area. They have had the possibility to express themselves relying on individual abilities so that information passes via the filter of their mind and soul. The final result has been a better understanding of the human body perceived in a unitary manner. as portfolio (consisting in handwriting or typed information), essays, projects and self- assessment. The centralization of information acquired after the assessment constitutes a starting point in building a thorough database which will reflect the learning progress and the factors which influence it. The teacher’s intervention will be performed adequately for each pupil taking into account his/her present and future needs. During my years of teaching I ascertained real difficulties from gymnasium and high-school pupils as far as understanding the fundamental concepts in chemistry. Difficulties regarding the understanding of nature’s structure from chemistry’s point of view can also observed from technical’s faculties graduated students. About graduated students of humanistic faculties it is too much to discuss, neither about citizens without superior studies. I found even in academic medium, including professors and engineers from technical faculties, cases of ignorance in chemistry, below the level of first years of study of chemistry in gymnasium. will be learnt thoroughly, it could be possible to progress in study of chemistry and its refinements, but this study will be performed only by some certain students. But the great majority of the people will remain with solid bases in chemistry, useful for life and nature understanding. Foodstuffs can be used as teaching material, but also as a source for innovative project of teaching and learning evaluation of certain units in high school Chemistry curriculum. The advantages of their use in chemistry study are varied: available and known raw materials, familiar to the students; wide issue of food processing and preservation; source of new ideas and innovative project and, interconnection of theoretical knowledge with practical applications of the studied phenomena. For example, the study of milk composition and properties can be a real support in understanding of some concepts such as: buffer solution, acid-base titration, solution pH. The milk is a complex product, important both in terms of composition and nutritional values. The milk complexity can be a starting point in the proposal topics of group project such as: “Is milk emulsion, colloidal dispersion or solution?”, ”The freshness of milk is better expressed by pH or titratable acidity?” CO 3 , NaHCO 3 or NaOH) are deliberately added. In current practice, the discovery of these frauds can be done easily by determining the milk pH or acidity. The literature data indicate values of 6.6 - 6.8 for pH and 15-19 0 T for the acidity of freshly milked milk, any value outside of these point out an non-compliant milk for industrial processing. This information about a common product, consumed daily, can be useful for the design of active method of teaching, learning and assessment of some learning units’– part of XII th curriculum, technological route, such as: “Acid-base titration”, “pH of acids and bases solutions”. In this case, it can propose different educational methods: from the case study – monitoring the evolution of acidity and/or pH of milk samples stored under different conditions of temperature (refrigerator and room temperature) to complex subjects for group project – “Milk falsification and chemical methods for the identification of counterfeits”. The study of Chemistry can become a true passion if the chemistry teacher succeeds in passing the barrier of knowledge and information transmission, seemingly abstract, without a direct link with the surrounding reality. For today`s student, “attacked” with all kind of information, on all channels (TV, internet, radio, telephone, etc.), the real challenge is given by the selection of that information. The main criterion applied by the students to achieve this selection is their applicability in daily life practice. educational which help to in to solve and practical which they are interactive methods teaching-learning-assessment. methods are interaction through and competition in proposed objectives. interactive group methods include: interactive teaching-learning methods applied in group; methods of establishing and systematization of knowledge; assessment methods; methods for solving problems by creativity stimulation; research methods in team. provide a new perspective on learning concepts. From the same approach, the chapter about solutions can become more attractive from interdisciplinary perspective by a theme such as „The blood – a vital aqueous solution” – theme focus on blood cell counts, blood glucose and natrium serum. In adddition, the importance of themes for group projects, it must emphasize the important role of teacher in detail planning out of tasks, continous communication, objective and right analysis of project results. This paper presents the results of a research undertaken in February 2013. The data was obtained by applying a questionnaire of interest to voluntary students - a sample of 162 respondents who answered positively to the request of the applicant teacher. Throughout the conducted research we had the support of the school managenent who appreciate that such initiatives might lead to strengthning of the relationship between students and teachers, increasing confidence and use of instruments that would facilitate students' path to knowledge, self-awareness and tonic motivation. Regarding the sampling of respondents group we can say that the classes have been fully studied taking into account the principle that classes are non-random. We also mention that there is no structure of parallel classes, therefore researched classes fully reflect the school attributes of the respective locality. The present survey been attempted to identify aspects considered significant by authors on the issues of teaching / learning chemistry in rural schools regarding the interest for Chemistry in five rural schools (Village Izvoare, Com. Dumbrava Rosie, Village Cut, Com. Dumbrava Rosie School - Dumbrava Rosie, Village Luminiş, Com. Soimului, Village Poieni, Com. Soimului, Neamt County) manifested by middle school students using traditional methods versus virtual/modern methods. The questionnaire analyses the "Perception of students on using the virtual learning of Chemistry, under the aspect of rights / obligations ratio" and started from the use and integration of computer as assisting tool within chemistry classes to motivate students regarding this discipline, in particular, and to increase the learning level, in general. The study pointed out the impact of „virtual” resourses in the learning processcof some disciplines, involving study, seriousness, dedication and constant volute effort. Evaluation plays an essential role in education and its importance increases in permanent education. Increasing the quality of educational evaluation is one of the objectives to date. Therefore this work aims to highlight students' cognitive and formative aspects as a result of the use of alternative evaluation methods. It aims to increase students' interest in this subject and the promotion of civic values and objectives, such as the civic and aesthetic spirit, by creating an interdisciplinary project. Theproject targets high school students and not only. The project initiates and promotes values and objectives such as citizenship, caring for ourselves and those around us, awareness of the role of young citizens. The general objective of the project is to develop each student’s knowledge and experience with the goal of creating added value in the community. The ultimate goal is of cha
