Title: Genetic diversity of tumors with mismatch repair deficiency influences anti–PD-1 immunotherapy response
Authors: Rajarsi Mandal, R. Samstein, Ken-Wing Lee, J. Havel, Hao Wang et al. (and 19 more)
Year: 2019
Paper ID: f11a0880c6fee2afb449c90598a39c69bc08d6aa
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f11a0880c6fee2afb449c90598a39c69bc08d6aa
Venue: Science

Abstract:
High mutational load gets a response Cancers harbor many genetic mutations. Defects in DNA mismatch repair prevent tumors from repairing certain types of DNA damage and lead to a hypermutable genomic state known as microsatellite instability (MSI). Some tumors with a high degree of MSI may be treatable with PD-1 (programmed cell death–1) immunotherapy, but patient response is highly variable. Mandal et al. studied drivers of differential response to immunotherapy in these patients and found that MSI intensity and insertion-deletion mutations strongly affected therapeutic outcome. Science, this issue p. 485 Effective PD-1 immunotherapy is influenced by the intensity of tumor microsatellite instability. Tumors with mismatch repair deficiency (MMR-d) are characterized by sequence alterations in microsatellites and can accumulate thousands of mutations. This high mutational burden renders tumors immunogenic and sensitive to programmed cell death–1 (PD-1) immune checkpoint inhibitors. Yet, despite their tumor immunogenicity, patients with MMR-deficient tumors experience highly variable responses, and roughly half are refractory to treatment. We present experimental and clinical evidence showing that the degree of microsatellite instability (MSI) and resultant mutational load, in part, underlies the variable response to PD-1 blockade immunotherapy in MMR-d human and mouse tumors. The extent of response is particularly associated with the accumulation of insertion-deletion (indel) mutational load. This study provides a rationale for the genome-wide characterization of MSI intensity and mutational load to better profile responses to anti–PD-1 immunotherapy across MMR-deficient human cancers.
